TM

2100, FOURTH QUARTER

TM

Written by JAMAIS CASCIO, JÜRGEN HUBERT, PHIL MASTERS,
KENNETH PETERS, PATRICK SWEENEY, and JON F. ZEIGLER
Edited by PHIL MASTERS
Illustrated by PAUL DALY
An e23 Sourcebook for GURPS ®

STEVE JACKSON GAMES
Stock #37-6707

Version 1.0 – February 2010

®

CONTENTS
2100, FOURTH QUARTER. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Bioroid Implicated in Munich Murder? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
President Decries “Brain Drain” . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Gen-Gap Dominates Debate as U.S. Election Nears. . . . . 4
Ithemba Seeks to Quash “Eidolon Scandal” . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Horus I Recovery Plan Falters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Digital Heirs Feud Over Author’s Legacy. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5

MRsiv Anti-Virus Upgrade Released . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Decivilization Advocates Defeated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
AI Group Demands Ban on Recordings. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
U.S. Deputies Bust Martian Caravan Raiders . . . . . . . . . . 6
Rogue AI Stopped in Capetown . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Isolates Denounce Federal Raid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7

About GURPS
Steve Jackson Games is committed to full support of
GURPS players. Our address is SJ Games, P.O. Box 18957,
Austin, TX 78760. Please include a self-addressed, stamped
envelope (SASE) any time you write us! We can also be
reached by e-mail: info@sjgames.com. Resources include:
New supplements and adventures. GURPS continues to
grow – see what’s new at www.sjgames.com/gurps.
e23. Our e-publishing division offers GURPS adventures, play aids, and support in PDF form . . . digital
copies of our books, plus exclusive material available only
on e23! Just head over to e23.sjgames.com.
Pyramid (www.sjgames.com/pyramid). Our monthly
PDF magazine includes new rules and articles for GURPS,
systemless locations, adventures, and much more. Look for
each themed issue from e23!
Internet. Visit us on the World Wide Web at
www.sjgames.com for errata, updates, Q&A, and much

more. To discuss GURPS with our staff and your
fellow gamers, visit our forums at forums.sjgames.com.
The web page for Transhuman Space: Teralogos News is
at www.sjgames.com/transhuman/teralogos.
Bibliographies. Many of our books have extensive bibliographies, and we’re putting them online – with links to let
you buy the resources that interest you! Go to each book’s
web page and look for the “Bibliography” link.
Errata. Everyone makes mistakes, including us – but we
do our best to fix our errors. Up-to-date errata pages for all
GURPS releases, including this book, are available on our
website – see above.
Rules and statistics in this book are specifically for the
GURPS Basic Set, Fourth Edition. Page references that
begin with B refer to that book, not this one.

INTRODUCTION
Back in 2002-2003, the background for Steve Jackson
Games’ Transhuman Space hard SF setting was expanded by
a series of reports from that solar system’s leading news
source, Teralogos News (Fifth Wave, p. 64), distributed
through an e-mail mailing list. Since then, this rich collection
of setting details, local color, and potential scenario seeds has
only been available in the form of a little-known raw-text file.
So we’ve decided to do something about that. This is one of
four free PDF files that collect those reports.
The dates on each report are a bit of stylistic detail, related
to the real-world dates on which the posts were originally distributed. Don’t take them too seriously as setting canon;
after all, Transhuman Space doesn’t have a fixed future or
GURPS System Design ❚ STEVE JACKSON
GURPS Line Editor ❚ SEAN PUNCH
Transhuman Space Line Editor ❚ PHIL MASTERS
e23 Manager ❚ STEVEN MARSH
Page Design ❚ PHIL REED and JUSTIN DE WITT

“metaplot.” The incidents described in these reports can
occur whenever suits your own campaign.
– Phil Masters

ABOUT THE EDITOR
Phil Masters is the author of Transhuman Space:
Changing Times, Transhuman Space: Shell-Tech,
Transhuman Space: Personnel Files 1-5, and a chapter in
Transhuman Space: High Frontier. He has also worked on
countless other GURPS products, including GURPS Castle
Falkenstein, The Discworld Roleplaying Game, and GURPS
Y2K, and on products for other companies.

Managing Editor ❚ PHILIP REED
Asst. Managing Editor ❚ MONICA STEPHENS
Art Director ❚ WILL SCHOONOVER
Production Artist ❚ NIKOLA VRTIS
Editorial Assistance ❚ JASON LEVINE

INTRODUCTION

Prepress Checker ❚ WILL SCHOONOVER
Marketing Director ❚ PAUL CHAPMAN
Director of Sales ❚ ROSS JEPSON
GURPS FAQ Maintainer ❚ –––––––
VICKY “MOLOKH” KOLENKO

2

2100, FOURTH
QUARTER
BIOROID IMPLICATED
IN MUNICH MURDER?
MUNICH, Germany/Teralogos: October 21, 2100
City police report progress in the investigation of the murder of preservationist activist Friedrich Knodt, who was found
with a slit throat in an alley in Munich yesterday.
According to a police spokesperson, hairs were uncovered
on the victim’s body that contained DNA fragments common
to biological androids, or bioroids as they are colloquially
known. Bioroids are rarely seen in Germany, as their manufacture has been banned in European Union for the last decade.
However, a small bioroid community does exist, as Germany
and other E.U. states have granted refugee status to bioroids
who have escaped exploitation in other nations.
Sources in the Munich police department told Teralogos
that a trace amount of synthetic sexual pheromones was found
at the crime scene, which suggests that the perpetrator was a
so-called pleasure bioroid such as the once-popular, but discontinued, Eros or Incubus series. Although these models are
no longer nanofactured by major biotechnology companies,
offworld factories in L5 and the Belt are rumored to supply an
underground black market on Mars, Luna, and Earth.
Police have so far declined to speculate on a motive for the
murder. However, Knodt, 51, was the vice president of the
German chapter of the Preservationist League, a Europewide non-governmental organization opposed to radical
modification of human or animal genomes which has in the
past advocated the institutionalization of all bioroid refugees
for public safety. Asked to comment on reports that a bioroid
may have been the assailant, Markus Lange, German president of the Preservationist League, said he was saddened but
not surprised. “We all grieve for the loss of our colleague.
Many of us have received death threats from radicals and
malcontents before, but we all felt that our work was too
important to abandon. And now our dear friend has paid the
ultimate price.”
“I would not be surprised if the killer turns out to be a
bioroid that was legally granted asylum here. Their thought
processes are not their own; while they look human, they are

living machines. They remain slaves to their conditioning,
which no amount of so-called socialization can truly erase. We
should not let these beings run free in our streets merely out of
a misplaced sense of pity for their fate.”
Silvie Graf, a spokesperson for the Munich Bioroidenhauser,
a pan-sapient rights advocacy group which operates half-way
houses for bioroid refugees, responded indignantly to the
accusation.
“Let the police finish their investigation before rushing to
judgment,” said Graf. “There are many unanswered questions. What was Markus Lange doing with a so-called pleasure bioroid? Some bioroid refugees are forced to hide their
identities due to the prejudice that the Preservationist League
exemplifies. I cannot speculate here, but in the past, Eros and
Tianyi bioroids living as citizens in the E.U. have been blackmailed for sexual favors or subjected to attacks and abuse by
unthinking humans. The true perpetrator of this violence
may not have been a lost, confused and victimized artificial
person, but society itself.”
– filed by Jürgen Hubert

PRESIDENT DECRIES
“BRAIN DRAIN”
WINDOW ROCK, Cibola/Teralogos: October 28, 2100
U.S. President Roberto Marquez today used a campaign
stop at a Cibola kindercomp factory to call for economic incentives intended to stem the flow of young, educated Americans
leaving the United States for foreign jobs.
“America is a free country, and that means that any
American is free to seek his fortune wherever he may choose
to go,” said Marquez. “Still, when talented young Americans
leave these United States in such large numbers, we’ve got to
recognize that there’s a problem. We’re suffering from a brain
drain, and it’s past time to plug it if our great nation is going
to have a future.”
President Marquez went on to announce several new federal
initiatives, including the relaxation of regulations on Fifth Wave
industries, tax incentives for hiring American citizens, and the
Cold Start! program for outer system economic development.

GURPS, Warehouse 23, and the all-seeing pyramid are registered trademarks of Steve Jackson Games Incorporated. Transhuman Space, Teralogos News, “2100, Fourth Quarter,”
Pyramid, e23, and the names of all products published by Steve Jackson Games Incorporated are registered trademarks or trademarks of Steve Jackson Games Incorporated,
or used under license. Transhuman Space: Teralogos News – 2100, Fourth Quarter is copyright © 2010 by Steve Jackson Games Incorporated.
Some art © 2010 JupiterImages Corporation. All rights reserved.
The scanning, uploading, and distribution of this material via the Internet or via any other means without the permission of the publisher is illegal,
and punishable by law. Please purchase only authorized electronic editions, and do not participate in or encourage
the electronic piracy of copyrighted materials. Your support of the author’s rights is appreciated.

TERALOGOS NEWS: 2100, FOURTH QUARTER

3

Although he did not endorse the reduction in the minimum
uploading age proposed by a minority of transhumanist
Republicans, he steadfastly rejected any consideration of the
so-called “Methuselah tax” on longevity upgrades that has
found favor among an increasing number of preservationist
Democrats.
– filed by Jon F. Zeigler

GEN-GAP DOMINATES
DEBATE AS U.S.
ELECTION NEARS
PORTLAND, Oregon/Teralogos: October 28, 2100
Speaking during a teletour of the popular Five Corners virtuality kingdom, U.S. presidential challenger Donna Kevlan
denounced President Marquez’ plan to counter the so-called
“brain drain” of young Americans.
The former mayor of Chicago called the President’s program “the same tired mix of Third Wave rhetoric, pork-barrel
spending, and half-measures we’ve come to expect from the
Marquez administration.”
Kevlan, who at 42 is two decades younger than her
Republican opponent, said the President was out of touch with
the concerns of younger Americans. “Aging is no longer a loss
of vigor, but an accumulation of knowledge and power,”
warned Kevlan. “Young Americans recognize that no matter
how talented they are, they face a wait of decades before there
is room for them at the top of any career ladder. Until fundamental reforms are made to our system, who can blame them
when they move to the developing nations or out to the
colonies?”
President Marquez, en route to a meeting with Andes War
veterans in Florida, responded sharply to Kevlan’s remarks.
“As long as I’m president, this nation will not make decisions
based on a policy of division,” Marquez told reporters. “We’re
all Americans, whatever our genotype or generation.”
– filed by Jon F. Zeigler

People are seriously wondering
if Ithemba Biotechnologies has
been creating and running high-end
eidolons of key politicians.

ITHEMBA SEEKS TO
QUASH “EIDOLON SCANDAL”
JOHANNESBURG/Teralogos: November 4, 2100
In the latest twist in a long-running scandal, it has been
reported that over the last two years, Ithemba Biotechnologies
recruited three or more specialist AI programmers from Red
Duncanite “Trojan Mafia” companies. This raises the serious
possibility that Ithemba have been creating near or fully sapient

AI models of leading South African Coalition (SAC) politicians
for strategic purposes. Ithemba, however, continues to insist
that it is the victim of a smear campaign by radical factions
within the SAC Council. “It’s nonsense,” said a spokesman, “but
it’s dangerous nonsense. These supposed revelations − which
involve the release of confidential immigration records − prove
complicity at high levels in government.”
The scandal, if that’s what it is, first broke early last year,
when SAC officials confirmed that several leading politicians
in both the Kenyan People’s Coalition party and Uganda’s New
Democratic Alliance had reported strangers asking after their
old friends and relatives in their home towns, and asking probing questions about their childhoods.
In itself, this sounded like a case of overenthusiastic journalism or an attempt by political rivals to find material for
smear campaigns. However, by June, these investigators had
allegedly been traced back to Ithemba. Even then, no one read
too much into it. Ithemba Biotechnologies is entangled with
SAC politics at every level, and some degree of backgroundchecking is expected. The fact that some of the targets were
politicians broadly sympathetic to Ithemba’s interests barely
registered, and for some months, the matter seemed largely
forgotten, apart from the occasional news of further corroborating details.
However, the latest report, involving a supposedly routine
release of information by an SAC agency in response to a private infosearch request, has put the cat back among the
pigeons. And now people − sane, sensible people − are seriously wondering if the company has been creating and running
high-end eidolons of key politicians, just to get a better handle
on their behavior.
Eidolon creation − computer modeling of specific human
personalities, based on intensive psychological profiling and
detailed biographical documentation − is not, in itself, illegal.
In fact, nearly all governments and large corporations do
something similar, the better to understand opponents,
although most keep quiet about it. The most powerful models
have to be at least somewhat self-aware, and according to
experts, to be most useful, they have to possess a distorted conceptual model of their environment. Human psychologists
would call them schizophrenic. Creating such AIs is illegal
under most laws. Hence, the leading specialists in the field are
believed to serve a small but profitable industry in the lawless
areas of the Belt and the Trojan asteroids. And that, strangely
enough, is where Ithemba’s computer division seems to have
been recruiting.
It sounds crazy. But Ithemba has always been entangled in the
politics of the SAC; its economic and political influence is
arguably what enabled the Coalition to organize throughout the
last century. Helena Barrymore, a Cape Town business consultant
who’s been watching Ithemba for the last seventy years, on and
off, admits that she’d be less surprised than she’d like if some of
the accusations turned out to be justified. “Ithemba aren’t evil” she
says. “They’ve always done a lot of good, starting with their AIDS
vaccine back in 2016. But the current management has a sense of
entitlement, and that makes for arrogance. If some of them
already think that they own the council, they might just see this as
insuring their investment. They’ll probably start calling the other
side nanosocialists any day now.”
Ithemba and SAC representatives are both said to be
preparing detailed responses to the reports.
– filed by Phil Masters

TERALOGOS NEWS: 2100, FOURTH QUARTER

4

HORUS I RECOVERY
PLAN FALTERS
WASHINGTON/Teralogos: November 11, 2002
Citing budgetary concerns, the United States Astrographical
Survey (USAGS) failed to come to an agreement with NASA
regarding the salvage of the historic Horus I spacecraft.
The Horus I mission was launched by NASA in 2024 with a
joint U.S.-Russian crew to establish a permanent base on Mars.
After an unusual series of software and hardware failures two
astronauts and one cosmonaut were killed in 2025 when a lander crashed into an already occupied landing bay. The 34 survivors were transferred to Earth, but the Horus I itself continued
past Earth into deep space. The failure of the mission delayed
U.S. and Russian development of Mars and gave China the time
to establish its dominant position on the Red Planet.
“We are sensitive to the historical significance of the
Horus I mission, but our resources do not support an operation to salvage the craft,” USAGS Inner System Director
Chuck Capretta told the joint commission. “If our budgetary
situation was to improve we would be more then happy to
assist NASA in this endeavor.”
NASA Director Dr. Jill Alaimo declined to comment, but
according to anonymous sources NASA is considering alternate plans. Since losing jurisdiction over manned space exploration to the rival USAGS agency in 2057, NASA has lacked a
deep-space salvage capability. The possibility remains that
they may contract out the recovery operation to private parties,
perhaps to Gypsy Angel freehaulers.
Critics of NASA were skeptical of the plans. “The U.S. government and NASA have had plenty of opportunity to recover the
craft over the decades,” said Dr. Emil Brontes, head of the
Citizen Aerospace Advocacy watchdog group. “NASA have been
playing a shell game ever since the Senate inquiry in 2027,” he
continued. “If NASA had their way they would let the hulk rot in
deep space; it’s an ugly reminder of their past failures.”
According to historian and former USAGS astronaut Paul
Santiago, the 2027 inquiry failed to get to the bottom of the
Horus I issue. “There were many unusual circumstances surrounding the accident and NASA overreacted to prevent as
much information regarding the incident from leaking,” said
Santiago, whose recently-released InVid The Horus Meme
Machine (Mawari Digital, 2100) looks at the many myths and
misconceptions surrounding the disaster. “Personnel were
given gag orders and the mission data that was released to the
public had a number of puzzling gaps and omissions. We can
only hope that the remains of the vessel are recovered with
appropriate care and these mysteries are finally laid to rest.”
– filed by Kenneth Peters

DIGITAL HEIRS FEUD
OVER AUTHOR’S LEGACY
MEXICO CITY, Mexico/Teralogos: November 18, 2100
Julita Reyes can hardly wait to read the latest installment in
the epic Millennium Saga by author Jonathan Sky. But her sister, Pilar, prefers the rogue Millennium stories by his literary
rival, J-X.

Their mother, Rosario, thinks both her daughters are crazy:
The real Millennium Saga died with its original author,
Jonathan Taylor Bradley. As far as she’s concerned, neither of
his feuding digital literary heirs are legitimate.
The story behind the Millennium Saga has become at least
as interesting as the convoluted plots of the books themselves,
which detail the lives and loves of two powerful families whose
fates converged in the year 2001.
Over three decades, Bradley wrote eight installments in the
wildly popular epic, which since its first publication in 2060
has been enjoyed by over 12 billion readers. He passed away in
2096, shortly after completing the blockbuster 4,424-page epic
Salt of the Sun, which ended on a literary cliffhanger.
Fans were devastated, until the Bradley estate revealed that
a mind emulation had been taken shortly before the author’s
death. Calling itself Jonathan Sky − after an early pen name of
the author − the sapient shadow wrote a ninth Millennium
book, A Brighter Tomorrow, in 2098. Most reviewers called the
book a faithful, if uninspired, continuation of Bradley’s work.
But the release of a rogue Millennium story on the TSA web
by another emulation called J-X later in 2098 stirred excitement
and controversy in the literary world. Broken Skies, while unmistakably carrying the Bradley stamp, took the story in a wild new
direction that many critics said breathed new life into the series.
The origin, nature, and even ownership of J-X remains a
mystery. While the Bradley family refuses to concede that J-X
has any connection to the author at all, most literary experts
disagree, believing it is another shadow of Bradley that somehow escaped the family’s control.
“Creating a program to pastiche an author’s writing style only
takes you so far,” said Fadil Mohammed of the University of
Basra. “The ideas and expression of ideas in J-X’s writing shows
a clear link to Bradley on a deeper and more fundamental level
than any mere eidolon. It’s undeniably a sapient emulation like
Sky, although when and how it was created remains to be seen.”
Other critics agree. Chance Mackintosh slogged that “the
Bradley of Broken Skies is clearly from an earlier epoch of his
organic period, possibly the mid-2070s. J-X’s style has the fresh
intensity of early Bradley, lacking the baseline triumphalism,
bordering on speciesism, that so diminished later installments
of the saga.”
And Jonathan Sky itself? For its part, the authorized
shadow refuses to even discuss its rival. Interviewers are
warned not mention J-X at all, or the interview will be ended.
J-X and Jonathan Sky are both expected to release their
respective versions of the long-awaited tenth book in the nowbifurcated Millennium Saga in December of 2100.
– filed by Patrick Sweeney

MRSIV ANTI-VIRUS
UPGRADE RELEASED
SHANGHAI, China/Teralogos: November 27, 2100
Shanghai Interactive today announced a firmware update
for its popular MRsiv brand augmented reality (AR) system,
intended to prevent further infections of the “Lucky Horse”
advirus. The advirus, which first appeared this September,
overlays Mandarin-language advertisements for the Lucky
Horse breath freshener product onto augmented visuals.

TERALOGOS NEWS: 2100, FOURTH QUARTER

5

The inexpensive MRsiv augmented reality systems are popular in China and in the Islamic Caliphate. Like other wearable
VIs, MRsiv systems display visual information on top of the
real environment, providing data about whatever the wearer is
looking at. Shanghai Interactive added a “shared reality” protocol in 2099, allowing wearers of MRsiv systems to exchange
data easily and quickly. Normally, this transmission only happens between trusted AR systems, but the Lucky Horse advirus
somehow breaks the protection and broadcasts itself to every
MRsiv system within range.
The MRsiv is not the only wearable afflicted by the ad virus.
According to Viral Life Hourly, the ArMax, a knockoff of the
MRsiv manufactured by Dhanmodi Dataflex and popular in
Bangladesh, Vietnam and Indonesia, has also been afflicted by
the spread of Lucky Horse.
Users typically didn’t know they were infected for some
time, as in the first stage of infection the Lucky Horse virus
would only display the ads in visually appropriate locations
so they appeared to be billboards or the like. After the virus
copied itself to 20 other hosts, it would begin to show ads on
the sides of buildings and vehicles, and would eventually start
overlaying the Lucky Horse symbol − a laughing horse’s head
− on top of the heads of people seen through the AR glasses.
The Lucky Horse ad virus cycle is intended to last a week, but
many users have reported multiple successive infections by
Lucky Horse.
Shanghai Interactive declined comment when asked
exactly how the advirus exploited the flaw in the firmware
encryption system, except to say that the problem is now
being corrected for all 120 million registered users. Shanghai
Interactive claims its firmware update will clear any existing
infection and stop its further spread. The update is carried by
all technical support channels, and all registered MRsiv users
should automatically download the new firmware by the end
of the day.
At present, no patch is available for MRsiv clones such as
the ArMax.
Although the firmware update should prevent the further
spread of Lucky Horse throughout China and the Caliphate,
users of MRsiv equipment will still need to use third-party antiad software to block unwanted commercial augmentations
transmitted through the standard AR channels.
– filed by Jamais Cascio

DECIVILIZATION
ADVOCATES DEFEATED
NEW YORK FREE CITY,
United States/Teralogos: December 2, 2100
The Decivilization movement suffered a setback today, as
a federal judge issued an order granting temporary protection to the Empire State Building. Since 2097, the old building and a 10-block area around it have been slated for
demolition as part of the ongoing Manhattan Redevelopment
Project. In November, Preservationist advocates requested a
stay order pending their application for World Heritage Site
status for the building.
“Once a building is torn down, it can never be replaced,”
said U.S. district court judge Maryam Quesada. “Until the
World Heritage Foundation has a chance to evaluate
the site, any move to destroy the building would be grossly
premature.”

The decision is a defeat for Decivilization advocates, who
have long argued for the return of most of Manhattan to an
“unbuilt” state.
– filed by Jon F. Zeigler

AI GROUP DEMANDS
BAN ON RECORDINGS
EarthWeb/Teralogos: December 11, 2100
SAI-ADA − the Sentient AI Anti-Defamation Association −
has called for the banning of the sale of recordings of “robot
fighting” shows from the late 21st century and early in this century, claiming that the programs demean and insult modern
intelligent machines. The group alleges that these recordings
are commonly shown at gatherings of biochauvinist organizations, encouraging anti-AI feelings. The programs, which
largely date from before the advent of true artificial intelligence, show rudimentary teleoperated cybershells in gladiatorial-style combat. In most of the melees this reporter viewed,
only one of the robots would emerge intact.
I showed one of the bouts to a group of sapient infomorphs.
Isolde, an E.U. citizen, said after watching the episode, “If I
was in a bioshell, this would make me physically ill. Imagine
how you’d feel if you saw a recording of humans who could be
your ancestors forced to beat each other to death for the enjoyment of a cheering crowd?”
Kanga, a sapient artificial intelligence (SAI) who is the legal
property of the American DynaPower corporation, largely
agreed. “I find the use of even pre-sentient cybernetic beings in
this manner to be quite disturbing. Of course, it bears no
resemblance to the situation of SAIs today. I am quite happy
about my status. I am.”
InVid-enabled copies of the “robot fighting” shows can
readily be purchased over the Web. Most of the individuals selling the recordings refused to answer my questions, although
one seller did send a brief response. His message read, in total,
“Robot fighting shows have nothing to do with today’s robots
[sic]. They were all remote control toys. This is just another
excuse for metalheads to act all oppressed.”
As yet, there has been no official response to SAI-ADA’s
petition from any national legislature.
– filed by Jamais Cascio

U.S. DEPUTIES BUST
MARTIAN CARAVAN RAIDERS
NANTONG, Mars/Teralogos: December 18, 2100
It’s no secret round here that Carlena Villareal and her team
of areologists, whose day job is a continuing survey of Martian
landforms and erosion patterns on behalf of the U.S. Martian
Commonwealth, are also deputized U.S. Marshals. Any sort of
government agents are thin on the ground on this planet, and
filling two jobs is commonplace.
But this week, the team have become something else: honorary members of the Martian Truckers’ Guild. They earned
this by doing their second job, tracking down and helping
arrest a bandit gang who had been preying on ground transporters in the Kasei Valles region. Thanks to Carlena and company, five people are due in court tomorrow to face a long list
of charges, and everyone else is breathing a sigh of relief.

TERALOGOS NEWS: 2100, FOURTH QUARTER

6

“Things were getting kind of unpleasant for a while,” says
American mining engineer Ryan Bunnell. “In retrospect,
it was pretty clear that the hijackers were just a bunch of
freelance yahoos. But people always like to think the worst.
The simplest theory that I heard was that the Martian Triads
were trying to get a stranglehold on ground transport. Some
guys wanted to blame the Chinese government, some were saying it was TSA agents from the Peruvian colony, some reckoned
Negative Growth terrorists. There were even people saying our
government was covering up major surface collapses, caused by
terraforming processes. It’s good to have all that stopped.”
“We’re getting far too much credit,” Villareal declares.
“After all, the Rangers actually made the arrests.” But she’s
being modest; so far as anyone can discover, her team not only
located the target site, but mapped out all the likely attack and
escape routes, and maybe even performed a little light sabotage on the raiders’ defense systems. The U.S. Army Rangers
simply provided the firepower to complete the job.
The part-time U.S. Marshals found themselves on the case
when they responded to a call for help from the Beni Khasim,
a mercantile caravan. “Those bandit bozos got way too cocky
there” said Bunnell. “Those Saudis may play at being desert
nomads, but they’re rich as hell. They can afford decent protection, and their comms people punched a signal right through
the bandit’s jamming.” The Beni Khasim and their bodyguards
actually drove off the initial attack, and after that, the deputies
– who know the terrain in these parts better than anyone –
tracked the raiders back to a hideout in the rugged country
around Nantong. Then they went to work.
“Mind you,” I was told in a bar in the U.S. colony of
Sharona, “those guys were lucky it was the feds who nailed
them. The Saudis are a bit old-fashioned about their law, and
the Truckers definitely look after their own. I doubt that we’d
be watching a trial tomorrow if someone else had caught up
with them first.”
– filed by Phil Masters

ROGUE AI STOPPED
IN CAPETOWN
CAPETOWN, South Africa/Teralogos: December 23, 2100
Yesterday evening, Cape Town special police in cooperation
with Executive Decisions International security guards raided
an Ithemba Biotechnologies biofac compound that specialized
in manufacturing bioshells − biological bodies controlled by
implanted computers.
According to Ithemba executives, who are cooperating fully
with Cape Town police authorities, a rogue AI had infested the
factory’s mainframe and controlled the factory for the last
seven weeks. The AI had allegedly controlled the six living factory workers through puppet implants, which prevented them
from reporting anything unusual. Four of the workers were
apparently forced to suicide by the AI, and two others were
killed in an exchange of gunfire with police. The two survivors
are now recovering in hospital, and are receiving counseling
for the ordeal.
Cape Town police recovered the SAI’s mainframe with
only minor damage, and are now analyzing its contents.
They stressed that they do not yet know where this rogue AI
came from − whether it is an evolved form of web life,
an emergent intelligence created by a computer virus, or an

orphaned military AI, a remnant of the Pacific War like the
infamous EI 2084-7-2097 that forcibly uploaded 76 humans
in Shaoxing, China, in 2097.
It is also unknown whether additional copies of this rogue
survive elsewhere, but this is considered highly likely. “Any AI
that is capable of subverting its programming to the extent of
intentionally harming humans is erased as soon as it caught,”
said a police spokesperson. “It certainly knows this, so it will
be have tried to preserve its own existence by xoxing itself.”
Also of concern to police is the factory’s inventory record,
which shows that three dozen more bioshells were produced
by the biofac then can be accounted for. In related news,
Ithemba Biotechnologies recommends that everyone who has
purchased a new bioshell from one of their dealers in the last
three months should call their service hotline immediately.
– filed by Jürgen Hubert

Ithemba Biotechnologies
recommends that everyone who has
purchased a new bioshell should call
their service hotline immediately.

ISOLATES DENOUNCE
FEDERAL RAID
WASHINGTON, United States/Teralogos: December 30, 2100
Isolate community representatives meeting physically in this
Maryland city have issued harsh criticism of the December 27
federal raid on New Jerusalem, Ohio. In their joint statement,
the Isolates described themselves as “law-abiding Americans,
who deserve to live without fear of our own government.” They
denied that the citizens of New Jerusalem had broken any law,
and demanded that the federal government revise its policy
regarding such communities throughout the country.
“American citizens have a right to be left alone so long as they
are breaking no law,” said conference chairman Olivia Banners.
“The citizens of New Jerusalem lived quietly and harmed no one.
Their reward has been to be victimized by the state.”
New Jerusalem is a typical Isolate community, composed of
some 350 people who have withdrawn as far as possible from
mainstream society. Relations between New Jerusalem and its
neighbors have often been strained, with accusations of vandalism and property damage. In early December there were
several reports of “rogue cyberswarms” causing minor damage
to buildings and equipment in the region surrounding the
Isolate town. On December 24, FBI and Federal Technological
Regulatory Agency (FTRA) cybershells entered New Jerusalem,
arresting 24 citizens and scattering surveillance dust through
the community. Community leaders have since denied any
wrongdoing, and have alleged that several citizens were
injured when the federal agents applied “excessive force.”
Federal officials had no comment on the advocates’ statements, other than to repeat denials that there was any
improper use of force at New Jerusalem.
– filed by Jon F. Zeigler

TERALOGOS NEWS: 2100, FOURTH QUARTER

7

WE
HAVE
WHAT YOU NEED!
Find all your favorites from
Warehouse 23 is your one-stop shop for games,
supplements, accessories, digital downloads,
and merchandise you can’t find
anywhere else.
Discover weird and wonderful essentials
for your next game night!

warehouse23.com

