TM

TM

SCHOOL DAYS 2100

Written by PHIL MASTERS
Edited by JASON “PK” LEVINE and NIKOLA VRTIS
Illustrated by PAUL DALY, DOUG SHULER and DAN SMITH
An e23 Sourcebook for GURPS ®

STEVE JACKSON GAMES
Stock #37-6706

Version 1.0 – September 2009

®

CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

About GURPS

About the Author. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

THE FIFTH WAVE SCHOOL CAMPAIGN . . . . . 4
KÖNIGSBERG-KALININGRAD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Geography . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
History . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5

RUNNING THE CAMPAIGN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Credibility Complications (Or Not) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Concepts and References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Sample Scenario: Field Trip. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Wealth, Status, Equipment, and Software . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Further Scenario Seeds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9

THE ENGLISH-SCHOOL STUDENTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Catherine Moltby . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Catherine’s AIs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
AI Allies and Duty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Denise Walsh . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Denise’s AI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Mike Harris . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Mike’s AI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Dave Sheckley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Dave’s AI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Ian Chakrabarti . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18

INDEX . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20

About
Transhuman Space
The Transhuman Space series presents a unique
hard-science and high-biotech universe for roleplaying. Set in the Solar System in the year 2100, it is a setting rich in adventure, mystery, and exploration of the
possibilities of existence. The core book in the line is
Transhuman Space, written by the series creator,
David Pulver.

GURPS System Design ❚ STEVE JACKSON
GURPS Line Editor ❚ SEAN PUNCH
Transhuman Space Line Editor ❚ PHIL MASTERS
e23 Manager ❚ STEVEN MARSH
Page Design ❚ PHIL REED and JUSTIN DE WITT

Steve Jackson Games is committed to full support
of GURPS players. Our address is SJ Games, P.O. Box
18957, Austin, TX 78760. Please include a selfaddressed, stamped envelope (SASE) any time you
write us! We can also be reached by e-mail:
info@sjgames.com. Resources include:
New supplements and adventures. GURPS continues
to grow – see what’s new at www.sjgames.com/gurps.
e23. Our e-publishing division offers GURPS
adventures, play aids, and support in PDF form . . . digital copies of our books, plus exclusive material available only on e23! Just head over to e23.sjgames.com.
Pyramid (www.sjgames.com/pyramid). Our
monthly PDF magazine includes new rules and articles
for GURPS, systemless locations, adventures, and
much more. Look for each themed issue from e23!
Internet. Visit us on the World Wide Web at
www.sjgames.com for errata, updates, Q&A, and
much more. To discuss GURPS with our staff and
your fellow gamers, visit our forums at
forums.sjgames.com. The web page for
Transhuman Space: Personnel Files 5 – School
Days 2100 can be found at www.sjgames.com/
transhuman/personnel5.
Bibliographies. Many of our books have extensive
bibliographies, and we’re putting them online – with
links to let you buy the resources that interest you! Go
to each book’s web page and look for the “Bibliography” link.
Errata. Everyone makes mistakes, including us –
but we do our best to fix our errors. Up-to-date errata
pages for all GURPS releases, including this book, are
available on our website – see above.
Rules and statistics in this book are specifically for
the GURPS Basic Set, Fourth Edition. Page references
that begin with B refer to that book, not this one.

Managing Editor ❚ PHILIP REED
Art Director ❚ WILL SCHOONOVER
Production Artist & Indexer ❚ NIKOLA VRTIS
Prepress Checker ❚ WILL SCHOONOVER
Marketing Director ❚ PAUL CHAPMAN

Director of Sales ❚ ROSS JEPSON
Errata Coordinator ❚ WARREN
MacLAUCHLAN McKENZIE
GURPS FAQ Maintainer ❚ –––––––
VICKY “MOLOKH” KOLENKO

Playtesters: Leonardo de Moraes Holschuh
GURPS, Warehouse 23, and the all-seeing pyramid are registered trademarks of Steve Jackson Games Incorporated. Transhuman Space, Personnel Files, School Days 2100,
Pyramid, e23, and the names of all products published by Steve Jackson Games Incorporated are registered trademarks or trademarks of Steve Jackson Games Incorporated, or used
under license. Transhuman Space: Personnel Files 5 – School Days 2100 is copyright © 2009 by Steve Jackson Games Incorporated. All rights reserved.
The scanning, uploading, and distribution of this material via the Internet or via any other means without the permission of the publisher is illegal,
and punishable by law. Please purchase only authorized electronic editions, and do not participate in or encourage
the electronic piracy of copyrighted materials. Your support of the author’s rights is appreciated.

CONTENTS

2

INTRODUCTION
It’s sometimes said that Transhuman Space provides a
wonderfully detailed world, but it’s hard to decide on and
define an actual campaign to run there. The Personnel Files
line is intended to provide an answer to this, and to demonstrate what PCs for the setting might look like. These characters can also be used as NPCs, as antagonists, allies, patrons,
or background color.
Each supplement in the Transhuman Space: Personnel
Files line describes the outline of a campaign set in the world
of Transhuman Space, complete with background, brief scenario suggestions, and notes for the GM. The material also
provides a set of characters suitable to act as PCs in this same
campaign. These characters are detailed using GURPS Fourth
Edition, with templates and other details drawn from
Transhuman Space: Changing Times (and Transhuman
Space: Shell-Tech in a few cases), which are also available
from e23. Personnel Files 5: School Days 2100 introduces a
group of teenagers attending school in circumstances unusual
for their day – they meet in person.

ABOUT THE AUTHOR
Phil Masters is the author of Transhuman Space:
Changing Times, Transhuman Space: Shell-Tech,
Transhuman Space: Personnel Files 1-4, and a chapter in
Transhuman Space: High Frontier. He has also worked on
countless other GURPS products, including GURPS Castle
Falkenstein, The Discworld Roleplaying Game, and GURPS

And what shall be
their education? Can we
find a better than the
traditional sort? And
this has two divisions,
gymnastic for the body,
and music for the soul.
– Plato,
The Republic
Y2K, and on products for other companies. He was born and
educated in the U.K., but he doesn’t recognize himself in any
of these characters.

INTRODUCTION

3

THE FIFTH
WAVE SCHOOL
CAMPAIGN
The characters detailed in this supplement are a bunch of
school kids. But school kids in the world of Transhuman Space
can be strange and impressive beings, and this group is in a
slightly unusual situation, even by the standards of the setting.
In fact, a “kids” campaign has a lot of potential in
Transhuman Space. In a world of broad possibilities and considerable wealth, kids continue to suffer specific restrictions
and limited resources. Despite being in a setting with many
radical or subtle differences from the 21st century, they are still
learning their way around and finding a place. The situation of
a Fifth Wave youngster in 2100 – probably uncertain, perhaps
confused, but with immense potential – in many ways resembles that of a player character just starting out in the
Transhuman Space setting. Such a character can logically be
given exactly the sort of advice and hand-holding guidance – by
parents, teachers, and AIs – that the GM may wish to offer PCs
to keep a game moving.
However, there are complications with the idea. To start
with, most Fifth Wave youngsters receive their education on the
Web and do much of their socializing online. Well-off families
in the setting can provide their offspring with effective protection from danger, in the form of companion AIs with the smarts
and initiative to yell for help whenever things start getting interesting. Nonetheless, the worst worries from the 21st century
about overprotected kids who are never allowed outside to play,
and juvenile couch potatoes who never run outside at all if they

can help it, have been resolved in this future. Then again, a
campaign entirely about school-age kids interacting and adventuring through the Web would almost certainly be too limited.
Although one solution might be to set the campaign in a Fourth
or even Third Wave area, the PCs wouldn’t have much access to
interesting Fifth Wave resources. Hence, this supplement places
its protagonists in a slightly unusual situation for the offspring
of the advanced world.
Specifically, it assumes that the PCs’ parents have decided
to give them a slightly “old-fashioned” education, sending
them to a real, physical school where they have to attend in
person and interact with all their fellow students in the flesh,
while somewhat restricting their access to AI resources in
school hours (though by no means eliminating it). There are
plenty of arguments for such arrangements, for parents of a
certain cast of mind. The objective might be to ensure that
the kids are fully and flexibly socialized, or that they don’t
grow too dependent on Web resources. The parents might
want to enable their children to work in places and situations
where they have to think for themselves and fall back on their
own capabilities.
The supplement also sets the campaign in a “borderline”
location. Specifically, it takes place in the free city of
Königsberg-Kaliningrad, where Russia and the European
Union meet and interact, and where there’s enough crime and
shady activity to power plenty of game plots.

KÖNIGSBERG-KALININGRAD
The free city of Königsberg-Kaliningrad is an independent
city-state on the Baltic coast, lying on the border between
Lithuania and Poland. Technically speaking, “Kaliningrad” is
the name of the city itself, while “Königsberg” is the entire
microstate, which includes an area of surrounding countryside. Even so, most people are casual about the distinction.
It isn’t a member of any big power bloc. Rather, it has
close ties to the E.U. and maintains good relations with
Russia, acting as a meeting point for trade between the two
powers. It is also the site of the eastern headquarters of the
Genetic Regulatory Agency. All of this has helped make it one
of the fastest-growing cities in Europe. Law and commercial

regulation haven’t always kept up with this growth, though,
and local society is at least slightly corrupt. It has a Control
Rating of 1, lower than most of Europe, although that may
reflect practical realities more than the letter of the local law.

GEOGRAPHY
Kaliningrad lies at the mouth of the Pregolya River, where
it empties into the freshwater Vistula Lagoon. The hinterland
of Königsberg (what was once the Kaliningrad Oblast when it
was part of Russia) is 5,800 square miles in area, with a scattering of small towns and villages in addition to the city.

THE FIFTH WAVE SCHOOL CAMPAIGN

4

The Vistula Lagoon is separated from the Baltic by the long, narrow Vistula Spit, the eastern end of which is part of Königsberg,
while the rest is Polish. Likewise, the Curonian Lagoon, north of
the city, is partly in Königsberg, partly in Lithuania.

HISTORY
This city was founded, as Königsberg, in the 13th century
by the Teutonic Knights. For centuries, it stood as an outpost
of imperial German power in eastern Europe, despite occasional local revolts and Russian invasions. It held a military
garrison and a university, and it was one of the most important
ports on the Baltic. It therefore suffered heavily from Allied
bombing in WWII. Late in the war, as Russian armies
advanced on the city, many of the German-speaking population fled. In the aftermath of the war, Russia in effect claimed
it as the spoils of what had been for them a costly war. They
deported the last remnants of the German-speaking population, and renamed it Kaliningrad.
During the break-up of the Soviet Union, Russia was determined to retain control of the city, for its reliably ice-free harbor and as a forward base for its armed forces. However, when
Lithuania gained independence, Kaliningrad found itself cut
off from the main part of Russia – especially when both Poland
and Lithuania joined NATO and the E.U.. Still, the Russians
held on. Even at this time, there were suggestions that it could
do well as a free port, but nothing came of them. Kaliningrad
became rather rundown, with few natural resources, patchy
industrial development, and not enough income from the
remaining Russian military bases.
Over the next few decades, the situation gradually improved.
As Poland and Lithuania prospered, local entrepreneurs

developed Kaliningrad as a transfer point or exploited its status
as an outpost of Russian commercial law within E.U. territory
– complete with an administrative system that was sometimes
more flexible and occasionally downright corruptible, depending on Moscow’s policies. By the 2050s, the city was moderately
prosperous. As Russia slipped toward civil war in that decade,
with outlying regions contemplating secession, the local governors began to consider their options.
The civil war of 2057-2063 generally saw Russia reassert
central control over outlying regions. However, the E.U. was
naturally unwilling to see military force projected over its territory. It made this fact clear to Moscow, while canny local
politicians and businessmen in Kaliningrad spoke, not of
independence, but of “special commercial status.” Distracted
by larger concerns elsewhere, and persuaded by skilled E.U.
diplomacy, Moscow acquiesced. Even in 2100, Russia still
tends to refer to the city as a “special territory” rather than
an independent nation-state, but the rest of the world thinks
otherwise – although diplomats are, of course, diplomatic on
the subject.
While Kaliningrad is run as a democracy, all its major political factions are closely linked to one commercial clique or
another. Some of them emphasize historical and ethnic relationships with Russia. Others are more associated with the
E.U., pointing to the realities of geography and economics. All
successful local politicians learn to play off different interests
to get what they want. Many are also thought or assumed to
have shady (if not downright criminal) connections, but the
system isn’t so corrupt that they can afford to acknowledge this
– especially given the importance of the GRA to the local economy. Overall, the citizenry tends to be “E.U. by principles,
Russian by sentiment.”

RUNNING THE CAMPAIGN
The campaign implied here is based around a small ageband/class in a small school that’s known simply as the English
School, Kaliningrad. This provides a syllabus consistent with
the rules and requirements of U.K. education, because
Königsberg-Kaliningrad, with its close relationship with the
E.U., has quite a few U.K. citizens in residence. (In fact, all of
these PCs are English-speaking U.K. citizens.) Note that
schools as such aren’t universal in Fifth Wave 2100; the basis
of most education is the use of “kindercomps,” usually at
home. However, parents who are concerned about their children’s socialization, and who want to avoid overreliance on
computers, can still opt for a formal school system. This establishment is very informal by older standards, but it does organize pupils into age-based classes for convenience.
The school is also small, so that the five PCs given here can
form the entirety of their age-band/class. Nevertheless, nothing
stops the GM or players from bringing in other pupil characters, perhaps of slightly different ages, maybe even establishing
a rotating cast, with different players running different characters for each scenario. This could make it hard to logically keep
the number of characters present for some important incidents
down to manageable levels, but GMs who are prepared to deal
with this somehow are welcome to run the school as the basis
of a big soap-operatic ongoing drama – perhaps with a few frequently appearing “star” figures.

This campaign could be played on an episodic basis. Every
week (or so), the PCs encounter some kind of puzzle, mystery,
or problem that they have to deal with, for whatever reason.
By the end of the week, they’ve solved the problem, possibly
handing off crucial evidence of wrongdoing to an adult law
enforcement agency to wrap things up and deal with the
annoying paperwork.
Most of these incidents should involve little or no physical
violence, when the PCs are present. They’re not especially welltrained in combat. Certainly, armed combat in the setting can
easily become very dangerous indeed. If these PCs get into
actual firefights in which the opposition resort to lethal
weapons, they will quickly die. Nonetheless, some opponents
may, for good reasons of their own, opt for less-than lethal
weapons (electrolasers, tangler rounds, etc.). For example,
security guards at what appears on the outside to be a legitimate factory may well use such weapons to deal with annoying
intruders, rather than risk the closer investigation and bad PR
that would come from killing them – even if the factory is actually a criminal enterprise secretly doing something illegal.
Likewise, the occasional low-key brawl isn’t out of the question, and some of the PCs have self-defense training or useful
cybershell allies that can handle such incidents. Also, while
actual fighting might be unwise, running away and hiding can
be quite exciting enough.

THE FIFTH WAVE SCHOOL CAMPAIGN

5

This campaign can feature a certain number of continuing
plots, some of them less about mysteries than about soap
opera. Teenagers are notoriously prone to friendships, transient enmities, passing fads and obsessions, and social gameplaying, as they learn to make their way in the world. They
have to put up with each other, even if they fall out – part of the
point of this school arrangement is to teach the pupils how to
handle such things. They can also suffer a range of adolescent
traumas, misfortunes, and learning experiences, including
family rows and break-ups. They may or may not choose to
support each other at such times. Some players like soap opera
in their games more than others, but for those who want it, a
school campaign offers endless possibilities.
Mystery plots can involve continuing, linking threads,
which perhaps only appear gradually as the campaign continues. Königsberg-Kaliningrad has its share of secrets, mysteries,
organized crime, and espionage. The PCs may stumble over
more than one manifestation of such things, or pursue a string
of clues back to some source over a period of weeks. However,
the PCs will almost certainly come to the attention of dangerous adult opponents as a recurrent, serious problem. While a
plotter may consider a bunch of random “meddling kids” as a
one-off incident, not worth the risks of seeking revenge and
best forgotten about as soon as possible, a persistent threat
might be another matter, meriting ruthless elimination. GMs
should balance such plots carefully, making sure that the
heroes are aware of the risks and are prepared to duck, dodge,
and hide. GMs also need to make more capable resources
available to call on by the time that the plotter would logically
choose to move against them.

CREDIBILITY
COMPLICATIONS (OR NOT)
This campaign idea may strain credibility with its group of
fairly ordinary young teens forever stumbling over mysteries,
one per scenario. Although some might accept this as a matter
of dramatic convention, this specific setting and group of PCs
are designed to provide a solution to some of this problem. The
setting is a moderately corrupt “frontier free city,” where criminal schemes and conflicting factions are a part of the background; crimes and mysteries are pretty much expected.
Additionally, some of the characters are connected to law
enforcement and security work through their families. Most of
them can be treated as having a healthy dose of nosy-teenager
curiosity, and will surely follow up any interesting discoveries.
Some good reasons certainly exist to use curious juvenile
amateurs as the protagonists of a Transhuman Space mystery campaign, rather than professional adult cops or detectives. Apart from the fact that they aren’t required to “follow
procedure” or report to restrictive supervisors through TL10
communication and management systems, the fact that their

forensic resources are inherently limited can be a large advantage for the GM. Tech level 10 investigative equipment can be
expected to be almost unthinkably sensitive and precise.
Consider what contemporary, TL8 chemical and DNA tests
are capable of, and then add 90+ years of advances, with
cyberswarms, pervasive communication networks, and nighuniversal wearable or implanted computers. A professional
detective who encounters a mystery, and who can apply
department-level resources and standard police legal privileges, will almost always solve it in hours if not minutes.
Teenage amateurs, however, will have to resort to improvisation, ingenuity, instinct, and a dose of bluff – which generally
makes for a more interesting and interactive adventure.
Of course, the teenagers may be tempted to hand problems
over to the professionals, as many adults will tell them they
should. Nevertheless, in a city where some of the authorities –
including the cops – may be corrupt, where shady factions may
have control of many communications and media channels,
and where the local authorities may sometimes be in conflict
with other nations (including those of which the PCs are citizens), turning to local law may not always be a real option. The
danger is that the PCs may end up in serious conflict with
those local powers-that-be. Nevertheless, they have their own
“patrons,” primarily their parents and, to a lesser extent, their
school. These resources may not be much help at first, but they
can be useful once the youngsters have collected enough evidence to convince those in authority to take a case seriously.

CONCEPTS AND REFERENCES
Several reference points exist for GMs running a “School
Days 2100” campaign. On one level, it can lie somewhere
between a less goofy Scooby-Doo and a lower-lethality Buffy the
Vampire Slayer, with high-tech gadgetry and the problems of a
part-transhuman society replacing the supernatural or pseudosupernatural elements. On another, it may owe a lot to the long
traditions of the “school-age detective” subgenre, from the
Hardy Boys and Nancy Drew to Brick and Veronica Mars, with
the science-fiction elements as an extra twist. From different
point of view, it can be seen as a modern approach to the “SF
juvenile” subgenre, as developed by the likes of Robert
Heinlein, with his “young citizen of the future” protagonists.
Equally, popular teen/school soaps can inspire soap-opera elements. The GM and players will have to determine how much
to emphasize any particular element – though the emphasis
can shift from scenario to scenario.
In addition to the Transhuman Space line, some other
GURPS supplements may be helpful to GMs running such a
campaign. GURPS Ultra-Tech and GURPS Bio-Tech are
always useful as sources for equipment and other technological details. GURPS Mysteries, meanwhile, provides an extensive guide to the art of running mystery plots; it even includes
specific notes on science fiction mysteries (on pp. 74-79).

My dad used to have this expression about roots and wings. Give your children
roots and wings. You know, a good basis and the freedom to use it.
– Dr. Donna Chen, Danger Bay #4.4

THE FIFTH WAVE SCHOOL CAMPAIGN

6

Wealth, Status, Equipment, and Software
These PCs combine high Status – typical of the citizens
of Fifth Wave areas – with low wealth levels, as they are
teenage students with no significant full-time employment.
Normally this would lead to problems meeting cost of living requirements, but these characters can be considered
to have “jobs” as legal minors living with their parents, who
cover their living costs at their Status levels. The starting
cash they receive for their wealth levels represents the
spending money they’re given and the resources they can
command directly, without having to ask their parent
Patrons. Some of this has already been spent on minor
items of equipment or software; the latter is listed with the
AI system on which it’s usually installed.
Each of the characters has a certain amount of accessible cash listed, which represents cash in hand (mostly held
in easily accessible online accounts), after paying for any
listed software or special equipment. Remember that, if
they want to spend this money on “adventuring” gear, they
are legal minors. They’re even more restricted by equipment legality than most civilians. Some items (such as
motor vehicles, tools with possible criminal applications,
and alcohol, minor brainbugs, or other mind-altering substances) are restricted for them despite being more or less
freely available to adults. In any case, they obviously have
to find somewhere which has what they want to buy in

SAMPLE SCENARIO:
FIELD TRIP
On a fine Monday morning in May, the protagonists are
informed by the English School’s head teacher, Dr. Leonard
Simmons, that they are scheduled for a visit to an example of
ecological restoration work. They’ll be under the supervision of
a trusted LAI, but the point of this exercise is for them to
research the topic for themselves and prepare InVid essays on
the nature and status of the project. (All this is pretty much
commonplace stuff in the English School.) Specifically, the
location to which they’re being sent is on the Vistula Spit;
they’ll be taking a minibus ride to the coastal town of Baltiysk,
then a short boat trip to the spit.
The school minibus has enough processor space installed
to run the party’s supervisor, VICTOR-2, a reasonably smart
AI with whom the PCs are very familiar. They mainly know it
for its habit of repeating the last word it said while pondering
problems, which it does a lot. It will transfer to the rented
boat in Baltiysk.
With little else to do on the run to Baltiysk harbor, they
review the assigned subject as the group sets out.

Background
VICTOR-2 has been given a package of relevant information, which it will happily download to the pupils’ personal systems or display on the screens of the minibus. Some of the
students may know some of these facts already, of course. The
story begins with some background information: The only natural entrance to the Vistula Lagoon is the Strait of Baltiysk, at

stock – the Web can help a lot here, but there are always
limits. Furthermore, legal minors found in unauthorized
possession of lethal weapons, even in a CR1 region such as
Kaliningrad, are generally in for a world of trouble. Acquiring useful software, however, is generally pretty straightforward (aside from obvious special cases such as military
targeting systems or criminal skill sets); it can usually be
downloaded through the Web in minutes.
Of course, these characters’ parents may be induced to
buy or lend them equipment that they can claim to need
for school projects, but getting hold of anything really
interesting this way should be a roleplaying exercise in
itself. Another possibility is to borrow some types of equipment from the school, which may mean persuading rather
dim but sometimes stubborn supervisor AIs.
As usual, it’s possible for richer PCs to loan cash or gear
to their poorer associates. However, overusing this option
is not only an abuse of the spirit of the wealth rules, it’s also
poor roleplaying. Rich kids may help out less-rich kids
from time to time, but they should be grudging or unhappy
with providing such aid, and the recipients should feel
embarrassed or patronized. If the characters get carried
away, their parents may discover what’s happened, perhaps
notified by domestic accounting software systems, and ask
difficult questions about intentions and motives.

the northeastern end of the Vistula Spit, adjacent to the town
of Baltiysk. This previously put all access to the lagoon under
the jurisdiction of whoever controlled Kaliningrad. Back in the
2030s, uncertain about relations with Russia, the E.U. financed
the construction of a canal through the Polish section of the
spit, reactivating the Polish port of Elblag. (Those who know
their regional history may recall that the canal was controversial in its time – the Russians weren’t pleased to lose their
strategic monopoly – but that’s all in the past now.) This had
long been proposed, but previously, worries about environmental effects (such as problems for wildlife migrations along
the spit and salt-water surges into the freshwater lagoon),
along with the cost, had prevented any action. A solution for
one of these problems included dynamic management of
surges through the canal. Unfortunately, this didn’t work as
well as planned in the face of global warming-reinforced tides.
Over the years, the lagoon has become increasingly brackish –
yet another of the past century’s many ecological mess-ups.
Now, the E.U. is financing attempts to repair the damage.
As part of this ongoing project, an automated research and
monitoring station has been set up near the northern end of the
Vistula Spit, on Königsberg territory. Its job is to track salinity
levels in the lagoon, as well as wildlife activity in the water and
on the spit. The site used for this is an old Soviet-era airfield,
which was abandoned and left to decay nearly 100 years ago. As
abandoned wasteland, and still government property, it seemed
like an ideal choice. The project may eventually lead to the construction of a movable barrage across the lagoon entrance to
control saline tidal surges; managed wildlife restocking; and perhaps some kind of microbot-based environmental management.
So far, things are still at the information-gathering stage.

THE FIFTH WAVE SCHOOL CAMPAIGN

7

Characters who know their local politics recognize this as a
pretty typical well-meaning, well-financed, probably quite sensible scheme. Cynics will guess that less idealistic elements will
have at least tried to lay claim to some of the money.

they’ll cart it away; entangled humans will be left where they
were hit. The dog is tired and scared, but if any PCs get close
enough to it to talk before it collapses, it gasps out, “Tell Mr.
Przenskala – I’ve been captured. Tell him – they may be after
him! Tell him I did my best!”

Approach and Arrival
GMs who like to pay attention to such details can invoke the
rules for motion sickness (p. B144 and p. B436) when the PCs
are on the boat; its own NAI system will dispense helpful medications (reroll any sickness results with +3 to HT) if asked.
Otherwise, the journey passes without incident.
On arrival, VICTOR-2 discovers that, due to compatibility
and security issues, it’s going to have to remain in the boat’s
computer, albeit in radio contact with the students as they visit
the site. (Anyone who queries this closely enough will realize
that the site evidently has tight computer security.) Not to
worry, though – lots of helpful systems are on the site, and they
can provide the kids with any guidance they need, speaking
through their communicators and the Web.
The site turns out to be completely automated. No other
humans are around, and even the AIs prove to be low-sapient
at best. The station is also largely buried, leaving the site with
the bleak and unprepossessing air of, well, a long-abandoned
airfield. Still, the automated systems are more than happy to
act as guides. The students get to see lots of cybershell bays on
the waterfront, adjacent to the jetty where their boat is
moored, with autonomous shells swimming in and out. They
are then directed to some automated laboratories in the carefully landscaped, half-buried buildings, all run by static computers with no personalities whatsoever. There are lots of
opportunities to take pictures – and even more opportunities to
become rather bored.

Mysteries
The first hint of something curious comes when any of the
visitors look at the site from the surface while listening to
the tour guide. Plainly, six landscaped-in buildings squat in the
area, but the guide refers to numbers one through four. If challenged, it declares that “additional fully automated facilities are
of no interest to visitors.” If pushed further, it says that “facilities include maintenance and storage space and scope for
expansion,” and simply ignores attempts to discuss the topic
further. However, some online research can show that even
high-level project documents only mention four buildings.
Once the main tour is completed, the students are given some
free time in which to wander around the site and “appreciate the
aesthetically embellished landscaping.” As they do so, some of
them spot something else unexpected: a large dog, running hard
and being pursued by a couple of spider-configuration cybershells. Closer attention may determine that the dog has the
enlarged skull of a genetic uplift, and that the cybershells are
probably cheap “securibot” types (see Changing Times, p. 58).
The spiders are focused on “herding” the near-exhausted dog
into a position where they can stop it with tangler weapons, then
tranquilize it with the hypo-injectors they’re carrying. If the students intervene, it becomes clear that the cybershells have basic
NAI software installed and aren’t inclined to be conversational.
They’ll ignore humans for as long as possible, but they will use
their tangler rounds however is necessary to get their job done.
They probably won’t use the injectors on humans – they don’t
know for sure what the effects would be. If they capture the dog,

Oh, talk not to me of a name great
in story;
The days of our youth are the days
of our glory . . .
– Lord Byron, “Stanzas Written
on the Road Between
Florence and Pisa”

GM’s Background
The kids have in fact blundered into an illegal Russian
mafiskiya operation, which has previously relied on some
manipulation of public data resources and the general complacency of anyone who did visit this rather uninteresting site. Of
course, even this unusually nosy bunch of students might well
not have blown the cover of the operation if it hadn’t have been
for the escaped uplifted dog.
Specifically, the criminal organization subverted the construction of the ecological facilities, using a front company to
bid for the contract at a minimal price and then quietly incorporating some extra laboratory and computer facilities into the
layout. These are now being used for assorted custom cloning
and biogenesis commissions, including the creation of unlicensed K-10A guard dogs. The products of the lab are then
smuggled into Poland and elsewhere on unmanned submersibles operating out of the station’s cybershell bays. This
dog was being trained in a VR simulator when it awoke due to
an anesthetic dose miscalculation, and it escaped. The LAI
managing the secret operation, which can override all other
systems on the installation, is now going into damage-limitation mode. Fortuitously for it, the site is designed to act as a
Web node for everyone in the area, so it can monitor and
restrict all communications on and off the site.
To start with, it will route all messages to emergency services to a paid-off police supervisor, who’ll stonewall. It will also
throw in a lot of “transient communications failures,” and
inform the AIs on the visitors’ boat that, due to “temporary
local maritime traffic management problems,” the boat can’t
leave just yet. If it decides that the operation is compromised,
as it probably will, it’ll also move its most valuable assets
through a tunnel to the underwater dock holding its two submersible transports, and eventually send them away.
Unfortunately, these are rather large (25’ long), and so its
claims that they are “salinity measuring probes” rings hollow
with anyone who see them, given that the probes they were
shown on their site tour were all 4’ long.
The AI isn’t likely to cause serious harm to stray bystanders
such as the students if it can easily avoid it – that simply leads to
more trouble later, and this is supposed to be a subtle operation.

THE FIFTH WAVE SCHOOL CAMPAIGN

8

Nonetheless, this is a professional criminal enterprise, a fair
amount is at stake here, and the AI has no Honesty programming. Fortunately, the secret base’s systems are mostly designed
to recapture stray products, not to conduct shoot-outs. Still,
they may have some dangerous assets, at the GM’s option.

Investigations and Developments
Obviously, the teenagers should soon come to realize that
there’s something odd going on, and their communications with
the outside world are compromised. They can conduct Web
searches and so on, but other, personal communications to anyone who might help keep mysteriously failing to get through.
VICTOR-2 isn’t a lot of help – it’s inclined to believe what it’s
told by the “trusted” research station systems – but it may be
persuaded or finessed to do something not obviously dangerous, with some effort.
One name that the PCs may choose to investigate online is
“Mr. Przenskala.” This is a moderately common Polish name,
but a little research will turn up one individual who sounds
relevant – a wealthy and somewhat reclusive industrialist
named Melchior Przenskala. A little more investigation might
suggest that he is suspected of somewhat legally questionable
activities, but nothing has ever been proved. Attempts to contact him, though, will bounce off NAI “idiot filters.” Actually,
the K-10A hadn’t started working for him; it was being
trained in VR, but it didn’t know that, and the simulation was
good. Really strenuous attempts to contact Przenskala will at
most alert him to the fact that the people who were selling
him his new, illegal guard dog have somehow messed up and
let his name get out, to his considerable annoyance.
Bypassing the station systems and contacting the outside
world isn’t impossible, but it requires some ingenuity. The plan
may need direct access to the station’s radio antennae, which
in turn may mean some trespassing into unauthorized areas
and crawling through access spaces. Another option, given a
moderately powerful communications unit, is to link up
directly to a receiver across the lagoon. This may require a bit
of tree-climbing or similar, for height, and some constructive
use of Electronics and Computer Operation skills.
The students may gain access to the “nonexistent” areas of
the station through the ever-popular hidden ventilation shafts,
and see enough to get some idea of what’s going on. Eventually,
the caretaker LAI will notice something and send in a securibot or two to “restrain these overexcitable youths.”
Lastly, the PCs might just try to leave. They could head
cross-country, but that would be a long, boring walk across
trackless ground, possibly pursued by security robots.
Alternatively, they could hack past their boat’s obstinate NAI
pilot, preferably with the aid of VICTOR-2. There are some
safety overrides that would make this feasible, and the vehicle
operating procedures, including a 2-point Boating skill set, are
stored in its system memories.

moving. Unfortunately, they might first discover that elements
of the Kaliningrad police are being bought off – but others are
honest, and if anyone can get solid evidence to, say, the GRA,
things will really start moving.
Alternatively, the students get away in their boat. They
might choose to pursue one of the departing submersible
transports. The boat has a small sonar system that makes this
perfectly feasible; the transport’s sonar IFF system persistently
identifies it as a research probe. This chase eventually leads the
pursuers into Polish territorial waters, and automated border
scanners will interrogate their onboard systems. However, no
problems occur with passport control – they can identify themselves as E.U. citizens, and they have full legal right of entry.
(The system will thoughtfully download a 500-page guide to
customs procedures to their computers.)
If the teenagers track the sub far enough, they determine
that the transport will dock at a facility owned by a company
that ultimately belongs to Mr. Przenskala. Visitors are politely
but firmly warned off by armed guards, but this is all evidence
for various police forces to follow up.
In extreme cases, the PCs might choose to keep things quiet
but sneak back to the station later, in their own time, probably
in a rented boat. This gives them lots of options. Their best bets
will involve a lot of information-gathering, calls to the right
places, and a hasty or stealthy departure. It also runs the risk
of discovering that the station’s illicit security now includes a
few human goons with guns and less cautious attitudes than
the caretaker LAI, of course. Hopefully, though, whatever they
do will lead to a raid, very possibly lead by the GRA (an organization that, for all its attempts to look friendly and low-key,
certainly owns at least a few helicopters that it can’t resist
painting black). If the students are around for the wrap-up,
they can even hear the caretaker LAI complaining that its mission would have been accomplished were it not for the interference of certain inconvenient young persons, before it deletes
itself and trashes its own memory units.

Tim Jones: “He’s 16. His body
is 73% hormones.”
– John Allison,
Scary Go Round

FURTHER SCENARIO SEEDS
Here are some additional ideas for adventure ideas for this
campaign.

Blackmail Is a Dirty Word

Resolutions
Eventually, the protagonists get some kind of message to
the outside world. At minimum, they are rescued and taken
home, and the school and their parents will complain about
the bizarre behavior of the station’s systems. How the PCs
themselves are received depends on what they say and some
reaction rolls. Assuming that they present some kind of evidence of something sinister, they might get an investigation

The PCs are approached by a younger pupil at the school –
a 10-year-old whose mother is the assistant British consul in
Kaliningrad. He’s heard that they have a reputation for solving
problems without involving adults too much, and he’s worried. His mother has been acting strangely lately, and she
seems distracted. A few things that he’s overheard suggest that
she has some kind of frightening personal secret, and that
she’s doing something at work that could get her into trouble.

THE FIFTH WAVE SCHOOL CAMPAIGN

9

He’s smart enough to guess that she may be being blackmailed.
He also understand that, if so, going to anyone official with this
could make things worse for her – but he also realizes that she
may get caught, which would be equally bad. He hopes that the
PCs can help him resolve the problem somehow.
Of course, one possibility is that he’s got everything wrong,
and the problem is completely different – trouble in his parents’ marriage involving a work colleague, perhaps, which
they’re trying to keep from him. However, assuming that things
are as he’s guessed, can the PCs discover enough to help resolve
the situation, perhaps turning the blackmailers’ own secrets
against them?

New Kid in Town
The PCs’ age-band acquires a temporary member – a new,
“young” SAI, developing its personality from basic principles
rather than using a lot of “legacy code” characteristics. It isn’t
really much like a young human, but in order to integrate
effectively with human society, it’s trying to experience multiple aspects of human life, including the adolescent-stage learning processes that apparently do so much to shape human
adults. The school has agreed to accept it as a pupil for a few
weeks, partly as an experiment, partly to provide human pupils
with valuable experience in interacting with advanced AIs, and
partly because this seems like a good cause. Moreover, the AI’s
guardians’ money is good for the fees. It’s teleoperating a lowend cyberdoll-style shell that enables it to function in human
society fairly comfortably.
This scenario can at least start out as a basic comedy of
manners. The AI is simultaneously bright, quick, and hopelessly naïve. It’s prone to asking bizarre questions about basic
human functions at the least appropriate moments. It experiments with all sorts of social interaction modes, from the toofriendly to the deeply annoying. It even tries to learn about
deeper human emotions that are difficult enough for adolescents at the best of times (lust, wild enthusiasm, hatred, emotional cruelty . . .). However, it’s a quick learner, and it’s too
sensible to want to be disliked all of the time.
Bigger problems turn out to be related to its origins. At the
very least, several groups seem to be claiming to have developed

its core processes, some of them in jurisdictions where this
implies strong property rights – and there may be hints that the
thing is actually an emergent intelligence, which would be
socially difficult. When agents of several factions and government groups show up with uncertain intent, where’s the kid to
turn but to its new classmates?

Personal Delivery
A new memeplex is spreading through the English-speaking teenagers of the world, and especially those with a
British cultural background – a fashion/dance subculture
with a peculiar taste for hierarchy and regimentation. One
oddity about this fashion is that it only ever seems to be
transmitted by direct personal contact and word of mouth –
it really doesn’t propagate effectively over the Web. Despite
this feature, it’s cropped up in enough places to show up in
several well-informed discussions of memetics. Theorists
generally assume it to be a deliberate construct – that’s the
standard assumption in 2100, after all – but if so, its purpose
is unclear. One plausible guess is that it’s a rather scary
socio-political tool; the whole thing has a rather nasty fascistic edge, and it’s possible that a manipulator with the right
memetic “keys” could transform any group of devotees into
a personal cult with political potential. However, there are
more questions than answers at this point.
Now, it’s shown up in Königsberg. This is interesting,
because it needs a “carrier,” but no one has yet been identified as having introduced it. The other intriguing aspect is
that the memeplex seems to key onto the effects of isolation
from actual personal contact among heavy Web users, inducing and exploiting a reactive desire for group contact. Hence,
the pupils at the English School, with their regular experience of personal contact, seem to be relatively well immunized. This makes them potentially useful as investigators
and data collectors, either on their own initiative or as agents
of the authorities. The only snag is that it’s just possible that
this is going to get dangerous. Someone may have put a lot of
effort in building a sleeper fascist personality cult, and that
person won’t want it to be subverted.

THE ENGLISH-SCHOOL STUDENTS
This group of kids have two things in common: They all
attend the same school, and they are all in the same age range.
They can be played as player characters, as another group in
the same age-band at the school, or as NPCs encountered by
other children or adults living or working in the same city.

CATHERINE MOLTBY
Mum and Dad are in business together, troubleshooting
cybershell goods-transport systems. This sounds like a guaranteed way to have to move around a lot – in person, even.

Look, I don’t want to bother anyone, but has any of you seen this
stuff in the high-metaverse chatspaces this morning?
– Catherine Moltby

THE FIFTH WAVE SCHOOL CAMPAIGN

10

They say that the customers like it when one of them actually
turns up on site, rather than teleoperating some cheap, imprecise, rented cybershell. They managed to fit having you into
their schedules somehow, but it didn’t slow them down much.
Thus, despite the fact that they’re both from the U.K., you’ve
barely spent six months living in any one place in your life.
Until this last year or so, anyway – then, they hooked up this
long-term contract here in Königsberg-Kaliningrad. They even
said something about giving you a chance to take a straight run
at some exams in a school environment. Up until then, they’d
just fitted you out with a lot of teacher AIs and cybershells and
nanosymbionts and stuff, and left you alone a lot of the time.
You liked it that way.

Playing Catherine
You’re not that sure of yourself
around people – well, people who
you don’t know, anyhow. You’re okay
with people you do know – Mum and
Dad and a few online friends, some
AIs and such. Mum had you checked
over by a memetic therapist a while
back. He said something about selfconfidence “issues,” and he got the
medic systems to prescribe you
some brainbugs, which have made
you less jumpy. (You’re supposed to
come off them by easy stages, eventually.) Even so, the first months at
the English School were excruciating,
though you’ve just about got used to things now.
It’s not like you don’t try. Someone suggested that it might be
easier if you took an interest in stuff that other kids would like,
so you sat down and learned your way around what the house
AI thought was cool – VR arts, music, what’s new from
Bollywood. You even traded in one of your old AIs for a fashionable new Medusa ’shell that is coded to provide fashion advice.
Then you found that the other kids weren’t actually that into this
stuff. That was weird, because a lot of it is pretty interesting. You
ended up picking up a bit about formal memetics to see how it
all works, how the studios put it all together. Maybe the AIs even
tricked you into learning “useful” stuff – or maybe it’s just you.
You tend to focus onto things quite well. Like, a while back,
Mum and Dad decided that if you were going to be going out
on your own more, you ought to be able to defend yourself.
They fixed you up with some VR/sim judo training. You ended
up insisting on taking some follow-up courses too. After all,
what’s the point of stuff if you don’t carry it through? Don’t people see that?
In addition to the equipment and software listed below, you
have easy access to about $1,800 cash.

Catherine Moltby
75 points
A skinny, rather nervous-looking, but immaculately, fashionably dressed 14-year-old Alpha Upgrade with a high-tech
“Medusa hairstyle.”
ST 7 [-30]; DX 11 [0]*; IQ 10 [0]; HT 11 [0]*.
Damage 1d-3/1d-2; BL 9.8 lbs.; HP 7 [0]; Will 12 [10]; Per 12
[10]; FP 11 [0].

Basic Speed 5.50 [0]; Basic Move 5 [0]; Dodge 8; Parry 9
(Judo).
5’2”; 80 lbs.

Social Background
TL: 10 [0].
CF: Western (Native) [0].
Languages: English (Native) [0]; German (Accented) [4];
Spanish (Broken/None) [1].

Advantages
Ally (Medusa cybershell with “Gorgon II” software package;
Built on 100%; Constantly Available; Minion, +0%) [20]; Ally
(NAI in Virtual Interface Implant; Built on
25%; Constantly Available; Minion, +0%)
[4]; Alpha Upgrade [41]; Patron
(Currently Available Parent; Powerful
Individual; 12 or less; Minimal
Intervention, -50%) [10]; Pop Culture
Maven 2 [10]; Status 1 [5].
Perks: Sanitized Metabolism (Multiple
nanosymbiont treatments). [1]

Disadvantages
Fearfulness 2 (Mitigator, Weekly treatment with nanosymbionts, -65%)† [-1];
Pacifism (Reluctant Killer) [-5]; Reputation -1 (Spoiled bubblehead; To the local
Anglophone community; 10 or less) [-1];
Shyness (Mild) [-5]; Skinny [-5]; Social
Stigma (Minor) [-5]; Struggling [-10].
Quirks: Attentive; Code of Honor (Stands by her “friends”
and associates); Dislikes Aesthetic Minimalism (Thinks it’s
creepy and lonely). [-3]

Skills
Connoisseur (Music) (A) IQ [2]-10; Connoisseur (Virtual
Reality Arts) (A) IQ+3 [4]-13‡; Current Affairs/TL10 (Popular
Culture) (E) IQ+3 [2]-13‡; Dancing (A) DX [2]-11; Expert Skill
(Memetics) (H) IQ+1 [2]-11‡; Judo (H) DX+1 [8]-12;
Makeup/TL10 (E) IQ [1]-10; Savoir-Faire (Dojo) (E) IQ-1
[1]-9§; Stealth (A) DX [2]-11.
* From Alpha Upgrade template.
† Fearfulness 2 would normally reduce your Fright Check
rolls from your Will roll of 12 to 10, but, so long as you keep up
the weekly nanosymbiont treatment, this penalty is eliminated.
‡ Includes +2 from Pop Culture Maven.
§ Includes -1 from Shyness.

Catherine’s Views of the Others
The other four in your age-band at the English School aren’t
so bad, really, now you’ve got used to them. They take you seriously some of the time, at least.
Denise Walsh is smart and creative, full of ideas, probably
because her parents got her one of those Metanoia genetic
upgrades, which sometimes means that she, too, has trouble
with people – but she doesn’t seem to care. You envy her that;
people can call her a geek to her face and she shrugs. Her folks
move around a lot too; she spent years up on Islandia Station,
which must be downright weird.

THE FIFTH WAVE SCHOOL CAMPAIGN

11

Mike Harris is much more of a ground-hugger. His dad does
some kind of security work, and Mike tags along with that,
which seems a bit desperate. “Adolescent revolt” may be a dated
sort of meme, but shouldn’t he try a bit harder to be himself?
Still, he’s more mature than Dave Sheckley, who’s about your
age but doesn’t act it. His mother works for the Genetic
Regulatory Agency, which has a major office here in
Kaliningrad. Dave parrots the Preservationist line – he even
gives your Medusa funny looks, though it’s just a cybershell,
not actually any more extreme than that cyberdog that tags
around with him everywhere.
At least he rubs Ian Chakrabarti the wrong way sometimes
– Ian’s one of those oh-so-competitive Ishtar upgrades, and he
doesn’t let anyone forget it. It makes him really cute, of course,
and he acts all thoughtful, but that may just be a bit of crude
memetic groundwork. Like Denise says, the great romance of
his life is Ian Chakrabarti.

Social Background
TL: 10 [0].
CF: Western (Native) [0].
Languages: English (Native) [0]; French (Native) [6];
German (Native) [6]; Spanish (Native) [6].

Advantages
Modular Abilities 3 (Computer Brain: 4, 4, 2) (Limited
Integration, -20%; Skills and Languages Only, -10%) [41];
NAI-5 [49].

Disadvantages
Duty (To owner; 15 or less) [-15]; Virtual Interface Implant
[-100].

Skills
Computer Operation/TL10 (E) IQ+3 [0]-13†; Diagnosis/TL10 (User) (A) IQ+1 [4]-11; Electronics Operation/TL10 (Communications) (A) IQ [2]-10; Merchant
(A) IQ-1 [1]-9; Research/TL10 (A) IQ+2 [8]-12.

AI Allies and Duty

Additional Software

These characters’ AI Allies have all been given Duty (To
owner) at 15 or less, worth -15 points. Strictly, this implies that
the AIs are not only “on duty” virtually all the time (which is
generally appropriate for these sorts of AI personal aides), but
also that the duty is inherently somewhat dangerous. This may
well be true in a version of the campaign that involves even
moderate levels of peril for the PCs: Humans have little compunction about taking NAI or LAI assistants into dangerous situations with them and even sacrificing them to cover a retreat
or achieve a very important objective. Opponents will have even
fewer qualms about harming such objects. However, in a lowcombat, more soap-operatic “school days” campaign, this disadvantage might strictly be considered more than the AI’s
experiences can justify. In that case, make these duties Nonhazardous, and find another -5 points of disadvantages for each AI
from somewhere – perhaps in the form of minor programmedin or acquired personality foibles, turning the AIs into comic
foils for the soap-operatic human juveniles.

Mugshot (Complexity 4); 3D Social Telepresence
(Complexity 4); Full Sensorium Neural VR (Complexity
4); Custom Virtual Avatar (For Catherine); Off-the-Shelf
Virtual Avatar (For NAI); Skill Set: Accented
Lithuanian, Spoken and Written (4 points; Complexity
4); Skill Set: Accented Polish, Spoken and Written (4
points; Complexity 4); Skill Set: Accented Russian,
Spoken and Written (4 points; Complexity 4); Skill Set:
Area Knowledge (Kaliningrad) at IQ+2 (4 points;
Complexity 4); Skill Set: Law (Königsberg Police) at IQ
(4 points; Complexity 4).
* From Virtual Interface Implant template.
† From NAI-5 template.

Medusa “Hairstyle” Cybershell
75 points

ST 1 [0]*; DX 10 [0]; IQ 8 [0]†; HT 12 [0]*.
Damage N/A*; BL 0.2 lb.; HP 1 [0]; Will 8 [0]; Per 8 [0];
FP N/A.
Basic Speed 5.50 [0]; Basic Move N/A; Dodge N/A; Parry N/A.

CATHERINE’S AIS
You aren’t big on AI assistants – actually, your parents
don’t want you leaning too much on software to handle your
life – but you do actually run two low-end systems, though
only one of them has much training beyond what it came
with. “Spot” is loaded in your virtual interface implant. It is
a general-purpose but well-trained Web access utility, linguistic translator, and entertainment player. Your Medusa
cybershell runs a trained NAI-4. Normally, a Medusa would
use skill-set software, but this one is a slightly more expensive model with integral training for the very basic stuff you
ask it to handle.

Social Background
TL: 10 [0].
CF: Western (Native) [0].
Languages: English (Native) [0].

Advantages
Fashion Sense [5]; Medusa Cybershell [18]; Modular
Abilities 3 (Computer Brain: 2, 2, 2) (Limited
Integration, -20%; Skills and Languages Only, -10%) [30];
NAI-4 [29].

Disadvantages

Spot

Duty (To owner; 15 or less) [-15].

18 points
ST 0 [0]*; DX 10 [0]; IQ 10 [20]†; HT 14 [0]*.
Damage N/A; BL N/A; HP 1 [0]*; Will 9 [-5]; Per 9 [-5]; FP N/A.
Basic Speed 6.00 [0]; Basic Move N/A; Dodge N/A; Parry N/A.

Skills
Acting (Snake-Hair Behavior) (E) IQ+2 [4]-10; Computer
Operation/TL10 (E) IQ+3 [0]-11†; Professional Skill
(Hairstylist) (A) DX+1‡ [4]-11.

THE FIFTH WAVE SCHOOL CAMPAIGN

12

* From Medusa Cybershell template (see Shell-Tech, p. 14).
† From NAI-4 template.
‡ This AI’s Professional Skill (Hairstylist) is based on DX
rather than IQ because it is more concerned with arranging a
standard or carefully defined style just so than with creative
style design. In fact, the cybershell’s High Manual Dexterity 3
will often apply to this.

DENISE WALSH
Your mums tell you that you were born because they manage
their careers so well. They met through work – they’re both in
financial management, consulting for a bunch of British companies and the E.U. civil service – and they managed to synchronize things for years, long enough to have you engineered.
They merged their DNA, and while they were having the work
done, they got you a Metanoia-series upgrade, which is supposed to make you smarter, more focused, and healthier than
average. They wouldn’t tell you which one of them carried you,
but eventually you worked out that it must have been Mum-Pila.
Well, maybe. Anyway, you were born on Earth, but for
most of your life that you can remember, you were living with
them on Islandia, the biggest space colony in the solar system
(not counting Mars or its moons, of course), up at L4. The
Metanoia focus kicked in on schedule, according to your
kindercomps’ reports, partly as an interest in math and mathematical sciences, but mostly . . . You discovered the visual
arts a while back, and then you found that you could get good
at them. You think that your mums may be a bit disappointed
– they’d probably like you to have followed them into their
sort of business – but they hide it all right. Anyhow, who
cares? You’re good at things like jewelry and photography,
and there’s so much you can do with them.
Then a year or so back,
Mum-Annette got an offer of
a contract that meant relocating back down to Earth, to
Kaliningrad. The pair of them
spent days looking serious
together before they decided
that she should go (fine),
and that she should take you
so that you could “get the
hang of life in a planetary
community” (hmm). The fact
that the English-speaking
community in Kaliningrad is
tiny compared to the one up
on Islandia doesn’t seem to
have crossed their minds, but
your curiosity did kick in, you
admit. (The weirdness of wide open spaces with horizons
didn’t occur to you until you experienced them in reality.)
Unfortunately, life on Earth has brought you into personal
contact with dumb memes like “Radical Preservationism,”
which can’t survive on a high-tech community like Islandia –
to be fair, the Genetic Regulatory Agency does have an HQ in
this city. You’ve also met some plain stupid individuals here;
some even get weirded out about you having two biological
mothers and no father, like this was a new idea or something.
Still, at least there are a lot of interesting things, people, and
places to photograph.

Playing Denise
You see yourself as a normal, grounded sort of person, and
in many ways you are. However, your background is unusual,
even by the standards of your era, and you don’t always realize
how much your assumptions may startle other people. You’re
also significantly bright and creative, largely thanks to your
genetic upgrade. In fact, people say that you’re full of ideas –
and that they aren’t always good. Well, so what? It’s better than
not having any ideas at all. You may grow up into a talented
artist . . . or a scientist . . . or even both. The unifying factor is
that you’re good at observing the world and then acting on
those observations.
In addition to the equipment and software listed below, you
have easy access to about $230 cash.

Denise Walsh
75 points
A thoughtful-looking 15-year-old girl (actually a Metanoia
Upgrade) with a taste for baggy but well-made clothes, often
carrying a camera.
ST 8 [-20]; DX 10 [0]; IQ 12 [20]*; HT 11 [0]*.
Damage 1d-3/1d-2; BL 13 lbs.; HP 8 [0]; Will 12 [0]; Per 12 [0];
FP 11 [0].
Basic Speed 5.25 [0]; Basic Move 5 [0]; Dodge 8; Parry 8
(unarmed).
5’5”; 130 lbs.

Social Background
TL: 10 [0].
CF: Western (Native) [0].
Languages: English (Native) [0]; French (Broken) [2].

Advantages
Ally (NAI in Wearable Interface; Built on 25%; Constantly
Available; Minion, +0%) [4]; Gifted Artist 2 [0]*; MetanoiaSeries Upgrade [51]; Patron (Currently Available Parent;
Powerful Individual; 15 or less; Minimal Intervention, -50%)
[15]; Regeneration (DNA Repair Nanosymbionts; Slow;
Radiation Only, 10 rads/12 hours, -60%) [4]; Status 1 [5].
Perks: No Degeneration in Zero-G (Microgravity biochemistry nanosymbiont). [1]

Disadvantages
Curious (12) [-5]; Pacifism (Reluctant Killer) [-5]; Social
Stigma (Minor) [-5]; Struggling [-10].
Quirks: Overtly disdainful of Radical Preservationism;
Slightly Agoraphobic (Avoids wide open spaces as much as possible, occasional -1 penalties when forced into the open). [-2]

Skills
Area Knowledge (L4) (E) IQ [1]-12; Artist (Drawing) (H)
IQ [1]-12†; Artist (Painting) (H) IQ [1]-12†; Astronomy/TL10
(H) IQ-2 [1]-10; Bicycling (E) DX [1]-10; Chemistry/TL10 (H)
IQ-2 [1]-10; Electronics Operation/TL10 (Media) (A) IQ
[2]-12; Free Fall (A) DX [2]-10; Jeweler/TL10 (H) IQ+1
[2]-13†; Mathematics/TL10 (Applied) (H) IQ-2 [1]-10; Mathematics/TL10 (Statistics) (H) IQ-2 [1]-10; Observation (A) Per
[2]-12; Photography/TL10 (A) IQ+2 [2]-14†; Physics/TL10
(VH) IQ-3 [1]-9; Vacc Suit/TL10 (A) DX-1 [1]-9.

THE FIFTH WAVE SCHOOL CAMPAIGN

13

He may photograph fine, but I lost interest in that story when he
opened his mouth. I’ve got better things to do with my time than listen to
back-to-the-caves ranting.
– Denise Walsh
* From Metanoia-Series Upgrade template.
† Includes +2 from Gifted Artist.

Equipment
Denise often carries a “portacam” – a small professionalquality movie camera with audio and 3D capability; 1,000 TB
internal capacity; datachip slot and computer interfaces; 16¥
parabolic audio magnification; 64¥ optical magnification; and
Night Vision 9, all weighing 4 lbs.

Denise’s Views of the Others
Sending you to an old-style school for “socialization” was
all Mum-Annette’s idea. The other people of around your own
age who you’ve got to know as a result are a pretty varied lot,
even though they don’t represent the full diversity of Earth.
You’re still trying to get your head around some of their
memetic weirdnesses, in truth, though they’re quite interesting sometimes.
For example, Catherine Moltby has a reputation as a bit of
an airhead, and she certainly doesn’t have much to say for herself. But you get the feeling that she’s not quite as stupid as people think, even if her cybernetic hairstyle is often more
expressive than she is. Maybe she needs to not let people get to
her so much; she comes across as all thin and jumpy.
Mike Harris seems to do the strong, quiet thing quite naturally. Once or twice, when he’s looked at your artwork, you’ve
got the impression that he’s got a pretty good eye. Some people
think he’s tiresomely blunt, so maybe he’s learned to keep quiet
to avoid giving offense.
Dave Sheckley is a brash, naïve kid. His mother works for
the GRA, and he’s obviously picked up a lot of Preservationist
attitudes from them – all at the moderate end of the scale, fortunately, but he won’t shut up about them, and they’re boring.
It’d be nice if he started thinking for himself and stopped leaning so much on Mummy and that blasted robot dog that trails
round after him.
Fortunately, Ian Chakrabarti is less annoying than that, even
if his boosted self-confidence (thanks to his Ishtar upgrade –
and people make remarks about Metanoias!) means that he’s
sysadmin of his own fan community. He at least tries to balance things by being polite (he’s never used the word “geek” in
your hearing, unlike some), and he is at least a bit cute.

DENISE’S AI
Denise uses a standard-model sunglasses-style wearable
computer with a cheap-and-cheerful Complexity 4 processor
and AI installed. Its virtual avatar is an elderly man with a
bland expression, dressed in a “classical” tunic.

Isaac
18 points
ST 0 [0]*; DX 10 [0]; IQ 8 [0]†; HT 12 [0]*.
Damage N/A; BL N/A; HP 1 [0]*; Will 10 [0]; Per 10 [0]; FP N/A.
Basic Speed 5.50 [0]; Basic Move N/A; Dodge N/A; Parry N/A.

Social Background
TL: 10 [0].
CF: Western (Native) [0].
Languages: English (Native) [0].

Advantages
Modular Abilities 3 (Computer Brain: 4, 2, 2) (Limited
Integration, -20%; Skills and Languages Only, -10%) [35];
NAI-4 [29].

Disadvantages
Duty (To owner; 15 or less) [-15]; Wearable Virtual Interface
[-42].

Skills
Computer Operation/TL10 (E) IQ+3 [0]-11†; Electronics
Operation/TL10 (Communications) (A) IQ [2]-8; Electronics
Operation/TL10 (Media) (A) IQ-1 [1]-7; Research/TL10 (A)
IQ+2 [8]-10.

Additional Software
Mugshot (Complexity 4); 2D Social Telepresence
(Complexity 3); Basic VR (Complexity 3); Custom Virtual
Avatar (For Denise); Off-the-Shelf Virtual Avatar (For NAI);
Skill Set: Accented German, Spoken and Written (4 points;
Complexity 4); Skill Set: Accented Polish, Spoken and Written
(4 points; Complexity 4); Skill Set: Accented Russian, Spoken
and Written (4 points; Complexity 4); Skill Set: Area
Knowledge (Kaliningrad) at IQ+1 (2 points; Complexity 3).
* From Wearable Virtual Interface template.
† From NAI-4 template.

MIKE HARRIS
Your parents got divorced when you were eight, and Alan
– your dad – ended up looking after you, partly because he
has the most reliable income. Unfortunately, to further
improve your circumstances, he needed to take a job that
not many other people wanted, largely because it involved
physical relocation. That’s how you ended up growing up
mostly as one of the small English-speaking communities in
Kaliningrad.

THE FIFTH WAVE SCHOOL CAMPAIGN

14

Alan used to be in the police. Now, he’s a security consultant, on a retainer from the British consulate and contracting
with a lot of English-speaking companies who set up offices
here. He’s been good to you, if sometimes busy. You’ve learned
a lot from him – you’re seriously considering following him
into the police as your own first career. You’ve
also got to know some of his pals on the Web,
especially JUVE, an AI based in Paris that
does coordination work for the E.U. and
Interpol. It really knows its way around the
law enforcement business. AIs aren’t always
big on emotions, but you think that JUVE sees
you as a friend; he’s certainly willing to teach
you a bit.
You don’t get all of your education from
computers. Alan always says that he’s in the
business of dealing with people and that you
need to learn about this – so he sends you to
the English School. This is kind of weird at
times, but you can hack it. When you don’t
have classes, you like to walk, so you know
the city quite well. You’ve recently had some
lessons on a motorcycle simulator, so you’re
hoping to explore further afield when you
can get hold of a ro-ped or something.

Playing Mike
Some people see you as old before your time. Indeed, you
may sometimes overemphasize your maturity and your willingness to learn from your father. But you actually have a real if
rather pragmatic interest in the world around you, and a capacity for enthusiasm that matches your age. You’re extremely
straightforward, and you just shrug off anyone who finds that
dull. You also tend to judge people, sometimes harshly, because
you’re always trying to grasp the situation quickly. You don’t
automatically try to take control in difficult situations, but that’s
mostly because you often find it easier to solve problems singlehanded. You don’t bother concealing your skills, although you
don’t generally boast about them either.
In addition to the equipment and software listed below, you
have easy access to about $80 cash.

Mike Harris
75 points
A quiet, slightly stocky but clearly fit 15-year-old, with a
taste for practical clothes.
ST 10 [0]; DX 10 [0]; IQ 11 [20]; HT 11 [10].
Damage 1d-2/1d; BL 20 lbs.; HP 9 [-2]; Will 11 [0]; Per 14 [15];
FP 11 [0].
Basic Speed 5.25 [0]; Basic Move 5 [0]; Dodge 8; Parry 8
(Brawling).
5’9”; 145 lbs.

Social Background
TL: 10 [0].
CF: Western (Native) [0].
Languages: English (Native) [0]; French (Broken/Accented)
[3]; German (Broken/Accented) [3]; Russian (Accented) [4].

Advantages
Acute Vision 1 [2]; Ally (NAI in Wearable Interface; Built on
25%; Constantly Available; Minion, +0%) [4]; Contact (JUVE –
Interpol/E.U. Police Coordination Computer; Criminology-18;
9 or less; Completely Reliable) [9]; Fit [5]; Genefixed Human,
post-2050 [0]; Patron (Father; Powerful
Individual; 15 or less; Minimal
Intervention, -50%) [15]; Resistant to
Disease +3 (Immune Machine
Nanosymbionts) [3].

Disadvantages
Honesty (12) [-10]; Pacifism
(Reluctant Killer) [-5]; Poor [-15];
Social
Stigma
(Minor)
[-5];
Truthfulness (15) [-2].
Quirks: Intolerant of addicts and
addictive personalities; Slightly
humorless (Doesn’t laugh much; -1
reactions from “jovial” company). [-2]

Skills
Area Knowledge (Kaliningrad) (E)
IQ+2 [4]-13; Brawling (E) DX [1]-10;
Criminology/TL10 (A) IQ [2]-11; Driving/TL10 (Motorcycle) (A)
DX [2]-10; Forensics/TL10 (H) IQ-1 [2]-10; Observation (A) Per
[1]-13; Running (A) HT [2]-11; Savoir-Faire (Police) (E) IQ+1
[2]-12; Search (A) Per [2]-14; Smuggling (A) IQ-1 [1]-10;
Stealth (A) DX+1 [4]-11.

Equipment
Mike owns a pair of electro-optical binoculars, which give
Night Vision 9 and 128¥ magnification; these also incorporate a
HUD, laser rangefinder, and digital camera, and weigh 0.6 lbs.

Mike’s Views of the Others
The school brings a diverse bunch into contact with each
other. Unfortunately, a lot of them are diplomat’s brats or the
clone-kids of rich business types who prefer to keep on the
move. They’re wrapped up in their own little worlds; most of
them can’t even find their way around the city without a software guide, even after living here for years. Still, some of them
are okay, though your age-band is maybe a bit too diverse.
To start with, Catherine Moltby is the school’s resident airhead. Well, maybe she’s not quite as far gone as people seem to
think – among other things, she’s quite a hard worker when she
puts her mind to something – but she wastes what brains she
has on trivial stuff. She’s mentioned taking some self-defense
classes once, which sounds a bit unlike her, but you don’t
expect that any of that stuck; she doesn’t exactly have an athletic build (unless she became a sprinter).
Denise Walsh is definitely smart – well, she has some kind
of genetic upgrade, which may help. (Two mothers, no father
– all so very posthuman.) Scores well in math, apparently, but
spends most of her time wandering around with a camera or
a sketchpad, snapping and drawing. She gets some nice pictures and not all of her bright ideas are daft; maybe she’s okay
for an arty type.

THE FIFTH WAVE SCHOOL CAMPAIGN

15

Dave Sheckley is just a kid. He may not be much younger than
you, but he hangs around like, well, an annoying kid brother. His
mother’s in police work of a sort – she works at the big Genetic
Regulatory Agency office here in the city, and he’s picked
up the Preservationist party line that they all tend to spout.
(Alan says that GRA agents all think that they save the world
once a week and twice at Christmas, and they expect to be
treated accordingly, whereas in fact they only save the world
once a year or so.)
Ian Chakrabarti has parents in the E.U. bureaucracy –
memetics consultants, apparently – who must’ve thrown
money at getting his genes tweaked. He’s a pretty boy with a
real nice voice and the sort of pushy attitude that’s going to get
him smacked down hard someday by someone who doesn’t
make allowances. Still, he can manage a kind of surface politeness, he pulls back from being too snarky most of the time, and
he puts his effort where his mouth is and tries to prove he can
handle things without AI support, which verges on masochism.

MIKE’S AI
Mike uses a cheap off-the-shelf nonsapient AI, running on a
“sunglasses” wearable, albeit with a little bit of personalized
training by now. Its virtual avatar is an orange and blue “mannequin” figure.

Grade
18 points
ST 0 [0]*; DX 10 [0]; IQ 8 [0]†; HT 12 [0]*.
Damage N/A; BL N/A; HP 1 [0]*; Will 8 [0]; Per 8 [0]; FP N/A.
Basic Speed 5.50 [0]; Basic Move N/A; Dodge N/A; Parry N/A.

Social Background
TL: 10 [0].
CF: Western (Native) [0].
Languages: English (Native) [0].

Advantages
Modular Abilities 3 (Computer Brain: 2, 2, 2) (Limited
Integration, -20%; Skills and Languages Only, -10%) [30];
NAI-4 [29].

Disadvantages
Duty (To owner; 15 or less [-15]; Wearable Virtual Interface
[-42].

Skills
Computer Operation/TL10 (E) IQ+3 [0]-11†; Electronics Operation/TL10 (Communications) (A) IQ [2]-8;

Navigation/TL10 (Land) (A) IQ+3 [2]-11‡; Research/TL10 (A)
IQ+3 [12]-11.

Additional Software
Mugshot (Complexity 4); 2D Social Telepresence (Complexity 3); Basic VR (Complexity 3); Custom Virtual Avatar
(For Mike); Off-the-Shelf Virtual Avatar (For Grade); Skill Set:
Broken Latvian, Spoken and Written (2 points; Complexity 3);
Skill Set: Broken Lithuanian, Spoken and Written (2 points;
Complexity 3); Skill Set: Broken Polish, Spoken and Written (2
points; Complexity 3); Skill Set: Area Knowledge (Königsberg
Oblast) at IQ+1 (2 points; Complexity 3).
* From Wearable Virtual Interface template.
† From NAI-4 template.
‡ Includes +3 for built-in Absolute Direction (which
depends on a GPS signal).

DAVE SHECKLEY
You’re in Kaliningrad, the main city of the Königsberg
enclave, because Mum’s job brings her here. Unlike the parents
of a lot of the kids at the English School, though, she isn’t some
kind of big-money business consultant. Like she says, her job
is more important than that. She works for the Genetic
Regulatory Agency, which has a big office here. She helps track
down rogue gene-hackers and bioterrorists and people who
make kinky botched bioroids. It keeps her busy, but the way
she explains it, it’s a job that someone has to do.
Not that you have to buy everything that Mum and her colleagues say, of course – some of the stuff that gets in the news
about the GRA slowing down medical research is bad for the
look of the thing. Even Mum admits that one or two of the people she works with made some funny remarks when they heard
that she’d bought you some defensive nanosymbionts and a
liver upgrade biomod. But like Mum says, those are proven
technologies, all very stable and safe. It’s not like dumping
experimental smart-sharks in the Pacific, or making bioroid
slaves, or rebuilding the genes for the human brain into something 10% faster and 50% crazier. What you’ve got is protection
against bad biotech and nanotech.
With Mum and Dad having split up years ago, and the so-so
pay of the GRA, your house only has a little automation.
(Besides, Mum isn’t that keen on more self-aware AI.) You’ve
learned to look after yourself and the house without much programmed help.
You’ve done decently at school, which has been online a lot
of the time. A couple of years back, though, Mum decided that
you needed more experience of people your own age, and
signed you up for the English School.

I think I know what sort of people we’re dealing with here. Bunch of
low-end data crackers, pulling black soft off the TSA Web.
– Mike Harris

THE FIFTH WAVE SCHOOL CAMPAIGN

16

I’ve heard that there’s a lot of weird stuff happening in places like that.
Charlie, pull all Mum’s reports for the last six weeks that reference
Romania in the summaries off the home server.
– Dave Sheckley
Your mother gave you Charlie, your infomorph assistant,
around then. He’s a low-end nonsapient AI installed in a
“cyberdog” shell. Mum tells you never to forget that he’s just
a machine, but he is a pretty versatile machine. People say
that mothers worry about their kids going out alone, and
Charlie is presumably Mum’s way of protecting you. Even so,
he’s a cool thing to have, really, though his software is basic.
Mum also paid for you to have an implant radio, mostly so you
can keep in touch with Charlie.

Playing Dave
You’re stuck with being the kid of this group, and you can’t
forget this, although you’ve learned to live with it. However,
you’re not stupid, and you have a definite sense of right and
wrong, which you don’t try to hide.
The fact is, you don’t try to hide much. Some people find your
brashness annoying, although others accept you for what you
are. You certainly don’t set out to bother anyone. Indeed, you
often try hard to help. Your impulsiveness is a large part of your
personality; unfortunately, it can lead you into situations which
will leave you shaken. Still, you have the robustness of youth.
In addition to the equipment and software listed below, you
have easy access to about $400 cash.

Dave Sheckley
75 points
Sharp-featured and eager-to-please 14-year-old, usually
plainly dressed and accompanied by what appears to be a large
but unremarkable dog.
ST 8 [-20]; DX 10 [0]; IQ 11 [20]; HT 11
[10].
Damage 1d-3/1d-2; BL 13 lbs.; HP 8 [0];
Will 11 [0]; Per 12 [5]; FP 11 [0].
Basic Speed 5.25 [0]; Basic Move 5 [0];
Dodge 8; Parry 8 (unarmed).
5’3”; 120 lbs.

Social Background
TL: 10 [0].
CF: Western (Native) [0].
Languages: English (Native) [0];
German (Broken) [2]; Russian (Broken)
[2].

Advantages
Ally (Cyberdog NAI Companion; Built on 200%; Constantly
Available; Minion, +0%) [60]; Genefixed Human, post-2050 [0];
Patron (Mother; Powerful Individual; 12 or less) [20]; Resistant

to Disease +8 (Immune Machine Nanosymbionts) [5]; Resistant to Ingested Poison +8 (Liver Upgrade Biomod) [5]; Resistant to Nanomachines +8 (Guardian Nanosymbionts) [2];
Status 1 [5]; Telecommunication (Implant Communicator;
Radio; Reduced Range ¥1/10, -30%; Temporary Disadvantage,
Electrical, -20%) [5].
Perks: Alcohol Tolerance (Liver Upgrade Biomod). [1]

Disadvantages
Easy to Read [-10]; Honesty (15) [-5]; Impulsiveness (15)
[-5]; Pacifism (Reluctant Killer) [-5]; Poor [-15]; Post-Combat
Shakes (12) [-5]; Social Stigma (Minor) [-5].
Quirks: Brash and naïve; Preservationist true believer. [-2]

Skills
Cooking (A) IQ [2]-11; First Aid/TL10 (Human) (E) IQ+1
[2]-12; Housekeeping (E) IQ [1]-11.

Dave’s Views of the Others
You sometimes feel overwhelmed by the other people at the
school, though some of them aren’t so bad when you get to
know them. Like that joke says, though, it’s getting to know
them that’s difficult. They’re kind of mixed, and not always
friendly – and some of them have been a bit snarky about
Mum’s job.
To start with, Catherine Moltby is one of those people who
think that they’re cool because their parents are rich; she
stands off from everyone. She’s all skinny and well-dressed,
with a cybernetic Medusa hairstyle. All she
thinks about is music and VR art and stuff.
She’s had one of the minor genetic upgrades,
which is supposed to make her guaranteed
sane – not that you’re sure it worked.
Denise Walsh is less cocky, so far as you can
see, but she’s full of odd ideas. She’s got two
mothers but no father – they had their genetics combined in a lab, and then added one of
the more fancy upgrades that’s supposed to
make her smart and healthy. It’s nothing
Mum’s office would have to worry about, but
it sounds pretty bizarre to you, without any
stability guarantee. Denise does seem to be
quite bright, admittedly, and acts all “artistic,”
forever pointing a high-end camera at things.
Mike Harris is a pretty straightforward guy
compared to those two, and you rather like
him. His dad’s an ex-cop and sounds like a nice
bloke. Mike knows the city better than anyone else you know –
he’s worth talking to and hanging out with.

THE FIFTH WAVE SCHOOL CAMPAIGN

17

That’s more than you can say about Ian
Chakrabarti, who’s another genetic
upgrade and almost as bad about it as
Catherine – dead pushy, though he insists
that the tweaks don’t affect his brain. (He’s
quite loud about that, especially if anyone
hints that’s where his good marks come
from.) At least he tries to be reasonable
and to talk to people, even if he keeps suggesting competitions and stuff and getting
sulky if he loses.

Complexity 4); Skill Set: Accented Polish,
Spoken and Written (4 points; Complexity
4); Skill Set: Accented Russian, Spoken
and Written (4 points; Complexity 4); Skill
Set: Area Knowledge (Kaliningrad) at
IQ+2 (4 points; Complexity 4); Skill Set:
Law (Königsberg Police) at IQ (4 points;
Complexity 4).
* From Cyberdog template (see ShellTech, pp. 12-13).
† From NAI-4 template.

DAVE’S AI
“Charlie” is installed in an effective
cybershell, albeit with the limitations of its
shape – and being nonsapient, the controlling AI has even more limitations.
Although that AI is Complexity 4, its shell
has a Complexity 5 processor, potentially enabling it to run
some powerful software. The shell resembles some kind of
dark-brown Labrador; its virtual avatar is simply a representation of its physical body.
Should the PCs become involved in any sort of violence,
check the full set of advantages included in the Cyberdog
template (Claws, Teeth, Enhanced Move, DR, etc.). Its
“pseudo-canine” senses may also be useful in all sorts of
investigations.

Charlie
150 points
ST 10 [0]; DX 12 [0]*; IQ 8 [0]†; HT 12 [0]*.
Damage 1d-2/1d; BL 20 lbs.; HP 8 [0]*; Will 8 [0]; Per 8 [0]; FP
N/A.
Basic Speed 6.00 [0]; Basic Move 6 [0]; Dodge 10; Parry N/A.

Social Background
TL: 10 [0].
CF: Western (Native) [0].
Languages: English (Native) [0].

Advantages
Cyberdog [95]; Modular Abilities 2 (Computer Brain: 4, 4)
(Limited Integration, -20%; Skills and Languages Only, -10%)
[31]; NAI-4 [29].

Disadvantages
Duty (To owner; 15 or less) [-15].

Skills
Area Knowledge (Kaliningrad) (E) IQ+1 [2]-9; Computer
Operation/TL10 (E) IQ+3 [0]-11†; Research/TL10 (A) IQ+2
[8]-10.

Additional Software
Mugshot (Complexity 4); Skill Set: Accented French, Spoken and Written (4 points; Complexity 4); Skill Set: Accented
German, Spoken and Written (4 points; Complexity 4);
Skill Set: Accented Lithuanian, Spoken and Written (4 points;

IAN CHAKRABARTI
You’ve been lucky in your life so far –
no denying it. Your parents – both consultants working for the E.U. – could
afford to get you an Ishtar genetic
upgrade, which makes you deft, healthy, and
self-confident, with small but useful details like a good voice.
(You’ve seen comments about the Ishtar sequences producing
“arrogance,” but that’s just an apathetic person’s word for
motivation.) They also made sure that you had an education
to match – mostly using teaching software, of course, but not
solely. In fact, you’ve come to understand that computers are
best kept slightly at arm’s length. You know how to use them,
of course, but you employ household and school systems,
rather than letting a wearable or an implant control your life
like some people.
All this growing up hasn’t been too badly disrupted since
Mum was asked to handle on-the-ground memetics assessment for E.U. diplomatic dealings with the free city of
Kaliningrad-Königsberg, and Dad swung some adjustments to
his own contract that allowed him to come with her (and bring
you), but they did decide that you should get some “socialization” by sending you to the local English-language school. That
has been kind of . . . interesting.
Your surroundings haven’t influenced you too much, you
think, but changes do group together. You always want to do
well, naturally, and you’d previously spent a while learning
your way around competitive gymnastics. However, that
wasn’t proving a profitable use of your time, and the move
gave you a chance to drop out of the sport. These days, you’re
thinking about a career of your own in memetics, or perhaps
politics. You’ve been doing some reading, finding out about
the original infosocialist theories that supposedly lie behind
the thuggish “nanosocialist” regimes of the Trans-Pacific
Socialist Alliance. You’ve been surprised to discover that Kyle
Porters, the founder of that field, may have been onto something. Treating ideas like physical property is no way to run a
society, or an economy. Proper infosocialism may indeed be
the way of the future. Not that infosocialism is any route to
success in European politics, thanks to the TSA. Oh well – at
least you can master the basic tools of the political trade –
public speaking, for instance.

Playing Ian
You’d like to think of yourself as leadership material –
not that this is anything to do with “Ishtar arrogance.”
You have a strong sense of loyalty to those near you.

THE FIFTH WAVE SCHOOL CAMPAIGN

18

Loyalty is the basis of ethics, so far as you can see. (Your parents explained this to you originally, but as a hypothetical idea;
your practical grasp of the principle is entirely your own.) You
don’t actually like rubbing people up the wrong way, even if
they do naturally dislike being outcompeted.
You really, honestly don’t see yourself as arrogant – so you
say, anyway. Something may eventually chip away at your deepseated self-confidence, but it certainly hasn’t happened yet.
You demonstrably are smart and good at most things you try.
You quite enjoy demonstrating the fact, often by suggesting
tests or contests. Maybe you need to work on learning from the
times you lose, though. You don’t think of your normal reaction
as sulking – just withdrawing to assess what happened.
Your age-band at the school consists of the people against
whom you measure yourself, and who are best placed to assess
you. That ensures that you feel some concern for them, even
when they don’t fully appreciate you. If they feel condescended
to, that’s not your worry.
In addition to the equipment and software listed below, you
have easy access to about $2,900 cash.

Ian Chakrabarti
75 points
A strikingly handsome, moderately athletic 15-year-old
Ishtar Upgrade (with the standard Ishtar “elfin” looks), well
but conventionally dressed.
ST 8 [-10]*; DX 12 [20]*; IQ 11 [20]; HT 11 [0]*.
Damage 1d-3/1d-2; BL 13 lbs.; HP 8 [0]; Will 10 [-5]; Per 11 [0];
FP 11 [0].
Basic Speed 6.00 [5]; Basic Move 6 [0]; Dodge 9; Parry 9.
5’6”; 125 lbs.

Social Background
TL: 10 [0].
CF: Western (Native) [0].
Languages: English (Native) [0]; French (Native) [6];
German (Accented) [4].

Advantages
Ishtar Upgrade [33]; Patron (Currently Available Parent;
Powerful Individual; 9 or less) [10]; Status 1 [5].

Disadvantages
Odious Personal Habit (Competitive) [0]*; Pacifism
(Reluctant Killer) [-5]; Selfish (9) [-2]*; Sense of Duty (Friends
and family) [-5]; Social Stigma (Minor) [-5]; Struggling [-10].
Quirks: Delusion (“I’m too smart to be manipulated by my
parents or the memetics experts; my Sense of Duty is my own

idea!”); Describes himself loudly as an infosocialist but not a
nanosocialist; Personality Change (Gains Bad Temper when
physically exhausted); Regards use of personal AI assistants
with ironic amusement. [-4]

Skills
Acrobatics (H) DX [4]-12; Computer Operation/TL10 (E)
IQ+2 [4]-13; Connoisseur (Music) (A) IQ-1 [1]-10; Current
Affairs/TL10 (Politics) (E) IQ [1]-11; Games (Competitive
Gymnastics Rules) (E) IQ [1]-11; History (21st-Century
Political) (H) IQ-1 [2]-10; Literature (H) IQ-2 [1]-9; Public
Speaking (Debate) (E) IQ+3 [2]-14†; Savoir-Faire (High
Society) (E) IQ [1]-11; Sociology (H) IQ-2 [1]-9.
* From Ishtar Upgrade template, which includes Odious
Personal Habit (Competitive) [-5] and Selfish (12) [-5].
† Includes +2 from Voice.

Equipment
As he doesn’t have a wearable computer, Ian usually carries
a medium-range communicator – a palm-sized radio/phone
with a built-in video screen and a 25-mile range.

Ian’s Views of the Others
Your sense of duty toward your classmates is serious, but
you have to admit to yourself, some of them make things more
complicated than others. Catherine Moltby at least isn’t any sort
of serious problem, though anyone who wanders around with
one AI inside her own head and the other one acting as her
hairstyle is obviously missing something. Still, she’s quite polite
to you, in her way.
Conversely, Denise Walsh is smart – she’s a Metanoia
genetic upgrade, and that lot are built for brains – but you
really think that’s all she is. Metanoias tend to focus on something, and with her it’s either art or math (which seems a bit
indecisive). She’s always on about her latest “creative” idea.
That means that she’s no problem to you when it matters. Let
her rack up scores in that stuff; it doesn’t impress the people
who count.
Mike Harris pulls off a slightly annoying pose of maturity.
He’s academically unremarkable, but his air of pseudo-adulthood sometimes impresses the gullible – including some of the
others in the age group. Still, your best chance might be to
bring him onto your side.
The same goes for Dave Sheckley, in a sense – though he’s
more of a natural follower. His memetics are all screwed up –
he’s picked up a Preservationist complex from his mother – but
with a bit of effort, he might turn out useful. If he doesn’t drive
you up the wall first.

Look, I gave you a start, and you still only just won, so don’t get
cocky about it. Anyway, we’re here now – so why don’t you check out the
radio reception while I look for signs of life?
– Ian Chakrabarti

THE FIFTH WAVE SCHOOL CAMPAIGN

19

INDEX
AI Allies and Duty, 12.
Ally advantage, 12.
“Blackmail Is a Dirty Word”
scenario seed, 9-10.
Chakrabarti, Ian, 18-19; views by
others, 12, 14, 16, 18.
Charlie, 18.
Credibility complications, 6.
Duty disadvantage, 12.
Equipment of PCs, 7.
European Union, 4, 5, 7.
“Field Trip” scenario, 7.
Genetic Regulatory Agency
(GRA), 4, 5, 9, 13, 16.
Grade, 16.

GURPS, 3, 6; Bio-Tech, 6;
Mysteries, 6; Ultra-Tech, 6.
Harris, Mike, 14-16; views by
others, 12, 14, 17, 19.
Infosocialism, 18.
Isaac, 14.
Islandia, 13.
JUVE, 15.
K-10A dogs, 8.
Kaliningrad, 4-5.
Kids as PCs, 4.
Königsberg-Kaliningrad, 4-5.
Medusa “Hairstyle” cybershell,
12-13.

Moltby, Catherine, 10-12; views
by others, 14, 15, 17, 19.
Motion sickness, 8.
Nanosocialism, 18.
“New Kid in Town” scenario
seed, 10.
“Personal Delivery” scenario
seed, 10.
Porters, Kyle, 18.
Przenskala, 8, 9.
References for campaigns, 6.
Research and monitoring station
near Baltiysk, 7, 8.
Running the campaign, 5-10.
Russia, 4, 5, 7.

Scenario, sample, 7-9; seeds, 9-10.
Sheckley, Dave, 16-18; views by
others, 12, 14, 16, 19 .
Simmons, Dr., 7.
Spot, 12.
Status of PCs, 7.
Student PCs, 10-19.
Transhuman Space, 3, 4, 6;
Changing Times, 3, 8;
Shell-Tech, 3, 13, 18.
VICTOR-2, 7-9.
Violence in campaigns, 5.
Walsh, Denise, 13-14; views by
others, 11, 15, 17, 18.
Wealth of PCs, 7.

STUCK FOR AN ADVENTURE?
NO PROBLEM.
e23 sells high-quality game adventures
and supplements in PDF format.

● Get complete sample adventures free for GURPS, In Nomine, and Traveller!
● PDFs from the major players in online publishing: Ronin Arts, Ken Hite,
Atlas Games, and 01 Games.
● New gems from up-and-coming publishers, like Atomic Sock Monkey Press
and Expeditious Retreat Press.
● Digital editions of out-of-print classics, from Orcslayer and the complete
run of ADQ to GURPS China and GURPS Ice Age.
● Fully searchable files of GURPS Fourth Edition supplements.
● Original material for Transhuman Space and In Nomine, with new GURPS
supplements from Sean Punch, William Stoddard, David Pulver, and Phil Masters!
● Buy it once, have it always. Download your purchases again whenever you need to.

STEVE JACKSON GAMES

e23.sjgames.com

Download ● Print ● Play

STEVE JACKSON GAMES
e23 is part of Warehouse 23, the online store at Steve Jackson Games. Warehouse 23 is also the official Internet retailer for
Dork Storm Press, Atlas Games, and many other publishers. Visit us today at www.warehouse23.com for all your game STUFF!

INDEX

20

