TM

2101, FIRST QUARTER

TM

Written by JAMAIS CASCIO, PHIL MASTERS, KENNETH PETERS,
PATRICK SWEENEY, and JON F. ZEIGLER
Edited by PHIL MASTERS
Illustrated by MARCIO FIORITO
An e23 Sourcebook for GURPS ®

STEVE JACKSON GAMES
Stock #37-6708

Version 1.0 – February 2010

®

CONTENTS
2101, FIRST QUARTER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Search for the Oldest Living Human. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
A Monstrous Ego? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Too Much to Swallow? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Esperante Executive Assassinated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Gaza Desalination Plant Goes Online . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Triplanetary Lines Offers Discount Mars Rates . . . . . . . . 4

Traveler’s Tale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Record Attendance at UN General Assembly . . . . . . . . . . 5
Divad Blasts to the Finish in
Mars-Earth Plasma Sail Race . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Noted Philosopher Turns Isolate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
InVid Review: The Tempest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6

About GURPS
Steve Jackson Games is committed to full support of
GURPS players. Our address is SJ Games, P.O. Box 18957,
Austin, TX 78760. Please include a self-addressed, stamped
envelope (SASE) any time you write us! We can also be
reached by e-mail: info@sjgames.com. Resources include:
New supplements and adventures. GURPS continues to
grow – see what’s new at www.sjgames.com/gurps.
e23. Our e-publishing division offers GURPS adventures, play aids, and support in PDF form . . . digital
copies of our books, plus exclusive material available only
on e23! Just head over to e23.sjgames.com.
Pyramid (www.sjgames.com/pyramid). Our monthly
PDF magazine includes new rules and articles for GURPS,
systemless locations, adventures, and much more. Look for
each themed issue from e23!
Internet. Visit us on the World Wide Web at
www.sjgames.com for errata, updates, Q&A, and much

more. To discuss GURPS with our staff and your
fellow gamers, visit our forums at forums.sjgames.com.
The web page for Transhuman Space: Teralogos News is
at www.sjgames.com/transhuman/teralogos.
Bibliographies. Many of our books have extensive bibliographies, and we’re putting them online – with links to let
you buy the resources that interest you! Go to each book’s
web page and look for the “Bibliography” link.
Errata. Everyone makes mistakes, including us – but we
do our best to fix our errors. Up-to-date errata pages for all
GURPS releases, including this book, are available on our
website – see above.
Rules and statistics in this book are specifically for the
GURPS Basic Set, Fourth Edition. Page references that
begin with B refer to that book, not this one.

INTRODUCTION
Back in 2002-2003, the background for Steve Jackson
Games’ Transhuman Space hard SF setting was expanded by
a series of reports from that solar system’s leading news
source, Teralogos News (Fifth Wave, p. 64), distributed
through an e-mail mailing list. Since then, this rich collection
of setting details, local color, and potential scenario seeds has
only been available in the form of a little-known raw text file.
So we’ve decided to do something about that. This is one of
four free PDF files that collect those reports.
The dates on each report are a bit of stylistic detail, related to
the real-world dates on which the posts were originally distributed. Don’t take them too seriously as setting canon; after all,
Transhuman Space doesn’t have a fixed future or “metaplot.”
GURPS System Design ❚ STEVE JACKSON
GURPS Line Editor ❚ SEAN PUNCH
Transhuman Space Line Editor ❚ PHIL MASTERS
e23 Manager ❚ STEVEN MARSH
Page Design ❚ PHIL REED and JUSTIN DE WITT

The incidents described in these reports can occur whenever
suits your own campaign.
– Phil Masters

ABOUT THE EDITOR
Phil Masters is the author of Transhuman Space:
Changing Times, Transhuman Space: Shell-Tech,
Transhuman Space: Personnel Files 1-5, and a chapter in
Transhuman Space: High Frontier. He has also worked on
countless other GURPS products, including GURPS Castle
Falkenstein, The Discworld Roleplaying Game, and GURPS
Y2K, and on products for other companies.

Managing Editor ❚ PHILIP REED
Asst. Managing Editor ❚ MONICA STEPHENS
Art Director ❚ WILL SCHOONOVER
Production Artist ❚ NIKOLA VRTIS
Editorial Assistance ❚ JASON LEVINE

INTRODUCTION

Prepress Checker ❚ WILL SCHOONOVER
Marketing Director ❚ PAUL CHAPMAN
Director of Sales ❚ ROSS JEPSON
GURPS FAQ Maintainer ❚ –––––––
VICKY “MOLOKH” KOLENKO

2

2101, FIRST
QUARTER
SEARCH FOR THE
OLDEST LIVING HUMAN
MUMBAI, India/Teralogos: January 8, 2101
Producers of the popular CenturyQuest! interactive video
show have announced a search for the oldest living human
being. When located, this individual will be offered a multi-million-euro contract for exclusive interviews and the publication of
a biography. CenturyQuest! producers invite men or women
who can prove that they were born before January 1, 1960 and
have never undergone cryonic suspension or nanostasis to contact them at oldest_human@centuryquest.marwari.co.in.
CenturyQuest! has been published on a weekly basis since
March 16, 2096 by Marwari Digital. It combines reporting on
genetic upgrades and geriatric medicine with human-interest
stories on the super-elderly. Current ratings indicate that it
reaches approximately 50.6 million viewers per week.
– filed by Jon F. Zeigler

A MONSTROUS EGO?
TOKYO, Japan/Teralogos: January 21, 2101
Reclusive director Kansuke O is said to be considering having a semi-sapient bioroid “monster” created to star in his next
slinky. Yokose Studios recently signed O to direct the next
release in its popular Kyoryura series of giant monster productions. Previous installments in the series have been InVids that
relied on digital effects or cybershells to create the monstrous
star, but O now reportedly favors a fully live-action slinky production starring a living Kyoryura.
“If Kyoryura lives, slinky technology will enable fans to
actually experience the action as if they were the monster,”
said Yokose spokesperson Akiko Tomizawa. “Kyoryura X is
the true, ultimate, realization of Kansuke O’s vision.”
Plans for a slinky version of Kyoryura have been in the offing for some time. According to Yokose insiders, O only reluctantly gave up his initial plans for a full-sized version of the
100-meter-tall Kyoryura due to liability and practical concerns,
agreeing to an elephant-sized monster instead.

“Biotech Euphrates is the most likely contractor,” said
Tomizawa. “Although we’re also talking with Avatar. It
depends on where we end up shooting, since ideally we’ll want
to grow it locally. We intend to record the monster’s scenes in
an indoor set in either one of the Huygens City domes on Titan
or a lava tube complex on Luna: Kyoryura is bipedal, and in 1/7
Earth gravity he’ll be able to walk upright or jump without
worrying about the pesky square-cube law.”
– filed by Patrick Sweeney

TOO MUCH TO SWALLOW?
THE COMBS, Mare Frigoris Industrial Zone,
Luna/Teralogos: January 27, 2101
“When I realized what had happened, I was giddy at first −
then I got mad!”
When lunar geology graduate student Beth Shang stumbled
across what appeared to be alien artifacts in a previously unexplored lava tube in Mare Frigoris, she was stunned. So were her
classmates from the University of Melbourne, on Luna for a field
research trip. Excited (and skeptical) messages were flying
across the web even as the artifacts − a series of black, diamondfiber pillars − were discovered. Equipment and personnel were
rushed to the site from Luna City and even Earth. Unconfirmed
reports had the Prime Minister of Australia being awakened to
be told the news, and the JSDF/ADF Lunar Composite Force at
Tranquility preparing to secure the site for the PRA.
“I was there when Dr. Howard removed the last pillar, and
we found the Don’t Eat That! sign under it,” continued Beth.
“My first reaction was to laugh, and look for the cameras. Like
pretty much everybody, I enjoy Don’t Eat That! on InVid whenever I can catch it. I just never expected to be the butt of one of
their pranks.”
Don’t Eat That! is the enormously popular InVid hiddencamera prank and game show hosted by former KT Event lead
singer Min Volume. In a typical episode, hidden InVid cameras
record a series of increasingly outlandish pranks played on an
unsuspecting victim. When the victim realizes what’s going on,
he or she can play games − typically involving messy substances − for cash prizes.

GURPS, Warehouse 23, and the all-seeing pyramid are registered trademarks of Steve Jackson Games Incorporated. Transhuman Space, Teralogos News, “2101, First Quarter,”
Pyramid, e23, and the names of all products published by Steve Jackson Games Incorporated are registered trademarks or trademarks of Steve Jackson Games Incorporated,
or used under license. Transhuman Space: Teralogos News – 2101, First Quarter is copyright © 2010 by Steve Jackson Games Incorporated.
Some art © 2010 JupiterImages Corporation. All rights reserved.
The scanning, uploading, and distribution of this material via the Internet or via any other means without the permission of the publisher is illegal,
and punishable by law. Please purchase only authorized electronic editions, and do not participate in or encourage
the electronic piracy of copyrighted materials. Your support of the author’s rights is appreciated.

TERALOGOS NEWS: 2101, FIRST QUARTER

3

The Don’t Eat That! episode for January 26 was different,
however, in that the producers spent upwards of $8 million to
artfully conceal plausibly alien items in a fairly inaccessible
part of Luna. One of the producers has a relative in the U.
Melbourne graduate program, and learned of the upcoming
expedition. Inspiration struck, and the Don’t Eat That! team
scrambled to set up the prank in time.
“We honestly never realized it would go that far,” claimed
Don’t Eat That! producer Saito Aki. “We’d never done something on that scale, we didn’t know it would spiral out of control like that.”
Don’t Eat That! has been hit with a $50 million bill from the
University of Melbourne, which is trying to cover the costs of
their rapid deployment to the site. The producers are still in
discussions with their lawyers as to whether to comply with
this demand. Other damages, however, will be harder to repair.
“For a brief moment, I thought the universe was suddenly
much more exciting than we had believed, and that we’d finally
discover some sign of alien life in the cosmos,” said Beth
Shang. “Now, I’m just kind of sad that the height of human civilization is a stupid game show.”
– filed by Jamais Cascio

For a brief moment,
I thought the universe was
suddenly much more exciting
than we had believed . . .

ESPERANTE
EXECUTIVE ASSASSINATED
LAGOS, Nigeria/Teralogos: February 3, 2101
Acting on an anonymous tip, police found the body of corporate executive Henrik Muller in a back alley this morning.
Muller was discovered bound with cufftape but otherwise
unmarked. The cause of death was determined to be massive
nervous damage due to “scrambler” nano. “His cerebral cortex
had been reduced to a featureless jelly,” said Dr. William
Gemade, medical examiner for the Lagos municipal police. “If
he had any plans to become a ghost, I’d say they were decisively ruined. The worst part was that he was probably conscious when the process began.”
Muller, who was reported missing on December 26, was a
senior executive with Esperante Enterprises, a Lagos-based
corporation specializing in development projects in poor Third
Wave nations. Esperante Enterprises has long come under
harsh criticism from human rights advocates for its alleged
cooperation with corrupt local regimes and exploitation of
local workers. While Esperante is a major employer in many
developing nations, it mainly employs unskilled VT workers,
who follow rote instruction from their virtual interfaces, which
are not owned by the workers but rented to them.

Lagos police reported that they had received an anonymous
email, routed through Free Net, from an individual claiming to
be Muller’s killer. The email denounced Esperante Enterprises,
and promised further direct action “on behalf of the victims of
global capitalism.” At present, authorities are treating the
death as a politically-motivated murder.
– filed by Jon F. Zeigler

GAZA DESALINATION
PLANT GOES ONLINE
GAZA, Palestine/Teralogos: February 10, 2101
Palestinian President Muhammad Al-Hamedi was present
for the dedication of the Gaza Desalination Station, calling it
“a major step toward the true independence of the Palestinian
people.”
Built largely with funds from the Islamic Caliphate and
Israel, the fusion-powered plant has been plagued by accidents
and delays. All of that was forgotten during today’s celebrations, as the plant operated smoothly on its first day online. By
the end of the day, engineers reported that 52 million liters of
Mediterranean seawater had been purified and pumped into
the Gaza distribution system.
The new plant is expected to end freshwater shortages in
the Palestinian Enclaves, especially once a trans-Israel freshwater pipeline is completed later this year. Israeli officials
expressed cautious optimism that the new pipeline would
reduce cross-border tensions. “Water rights have always been
a point of contention between Israel and its Palestinian neighbors,” said Israeli Prime Minister David Gould, a guest at
today’s ceremony. “The progress of civilization is about ending
such conflicts by replacing scarcity with plenty.”
– filed by Jon F. Zeigler

TRIPLANETARY LINES
OFFERS DISCOUNT
MARS RATES
ISLANDIA, L4/Teralogos: February 18, 2101
In an expansion of their successful TransMars program,
Triplanetary Lines is reassigning two of their newest Meiziclass passenger space vessels − Zubatka and Golden Swan − to
the Earth-Mars passenger route. The two vessels have been
recently refitted with additional passenger accommodations
and are expected to reenter service on March 10, 2101. The
additions to the Earth-Mars route underlines a new strategy
for the company, which had previously concentrated on highmargin cargo transports.
“Since the Mars space elevator became operational,
Triplanetary Lines has seen steady growth in the Earth-Mars
passenger business. This has far outstripped our expectations,
and we are working to give it more attention,” said Juan
Cabrillo, Triplanetary Lines President and CEO. “The move of
these two vessels to the TransMars route will further reduce
our already-low prices and further cement our growing lead in
this important market. We expect the current one-way economy ticket price from Earth HEO to Mars LEO to drop 7-10%
by the end of this year.”

TERALOGOS NEWS: 2101, FIRST QUARTER

4

Triplanetary has been aggressive in breaking the nearmonopoly enjoyed by rival Mars Interplanetary, establishing
generous long-term shipping contract with brokers and
expanding their network of freehauler affiliates for charter
transport to the Main Belt and the rest of the Deep Beyond.
Their liberal management policies regarding bioroid and AI
rights have landed them several high-profile government contracts with the EU and they enjoy considerable clout with the
independent Farhauler’s Guild − although at the expense of
profits compared to the more aggressive cost-cutting actions of
Mars Interplanetary.
“Our expansion of Earth-Mars passenger service is an exciting opportunity for those planning to make an interplanetary
trip,” Cabrillo stated. “Triplanetary Lines’ commitment to
value and integrity has never diminished and our customers
and partners can continue to rely on us as we move into the
22nd century. As new vessels are added to our growing fleet we
will further diversify our offerings and increase our presence
both on Mars and the outer solar system.”
– filed by Kenneth Peters

TRAVELER’S TALE
COLUMBIA STATION,
Earth Orbit/Teralogos: February 25, 2101
They gave Sven Egilsson the Fergus Memorial Award for
travel writing last week. Normally, the ceremony is held in
November, but they had to wait this time; Egilsson insisted on
collecting it in person, and that meant that he had to come
half-way across the system to Columbia Station. It may seem
good of them to delay things just for him, but given what he
won it for, it was fitting. And when I asked to interview him, he
insisted on meeting me in person, too, and I couldn’t argue.
That is why I’m sitting in a Columbia Station bar, drinking locally brewed beer, when everyone starts staring at the
doorway. After all, you don’t see many non-humanoid cybershells in bars, and Egilsson’s custom ’shell is an arachnophobe’s nightmare, with limbs which switch between use as
legs, arms, or sensor masts seemingly at random, and a heavy
casing that looks like it’s been sandblasted and then tinted
with unearthly acids. Which, in fact, it has − on Mars and
Venus, among other places.
He scuttles across the room to me, asks what I’m drinking,
then pauses before announcing that he’s downloaded the flavor model from the Web, and yes, it tastes good to him. For a
radical transhumanist personality upload − a ghost − Egilsson
seems awfully attached to the experiences of flesh.
Which is somewhat the point here. Egilsson is a traveler
who believes in doing things the old-fashioned way. When he
wants to visit another planet, he doesn’t just have himself
beamed there, or even sit in orbit and teleoperate a tourist
cybershell; he goes down in person, in the same cybershell
every time. (Which is why it has to be a custom model. In fact,
it’s probably the toughest, most versatile cybershell you’ll meet
outside the U.S. Army.) And he doesn’t power down while he’s
in transit, either; he travels by fastliner, and mingles with the
other passengers all the way.
You may gather that Egilsson is quite rich. Believe me, travel
writing doesn’t pay well enough to support all that. So I ask him
why he bothers, when he could just as easily sit at home on a
very secure mainframe with a virtual harem, and download all
the slinky records of other places that he might ever want.

At which, a small screen pops out of the cybershell and displays
the face that belonged on his old body, which smiles.
“I’m interested in making the most of reality,” he says, “not
in escaping from it.”
>>This is a free sample from our popular magazine channels.
For the full interview, in InVid or slinky format, please subscribe
to Teralogos-People.<<
– filed by Phil Masters

RECORD ATTENDANCE AT
UN GENERAL ASSEMBLY
GENEVA, Switzerland/Teralogos: March 5, 2101
Attendance of member nations at the United Nations
General Assembly in Geneva has reached 42% this week, as
nations send delegates to attend the ongoing U.N. Conference
on International Aid. The last time attendance in the General
Assembly rose above 40% of member nations was in 2084,
when members of the Transpacific Socialist Alliance called for
an emergency session to discuss the Pacific War. Since the UN
began publishing attendance statistics in 2063, the average
proportion of member states attending General Assembly sessions has been about 32%.
“I’m quite encouraged,” said U.N. Secretary-General Rajiv
Pandya in a public statement. “That so many member states
have chosen to attend a non-emergency session demonstrates
that the United Nations Organization is far from irrelevant in
today’s world. Humanity needs a place in which to discuss
and resolve ongoing problems, and we provide the best forum
available.”
Notable delegations attending this week’s session include
those of the United States (last attending in 2076) and the
People’s Republic of China (last attending in 2085).
– filed by Jon F. Zeigler

DIVAD BLASTS TO THE
FINISH IN MARS-EARTH
PLASMA SAIL RACE
ISLANDIA/Teralogos: March 12, 2101
Julia Divad won the 4th Annual Solar Cup on Wednesday,
narrowly beating last year’s winner, Kei Noguchi, with a record
time of three months, five days, and six minutes. Her racer,
Raptor of Dawn, is the first to have been designed and assembled in the Islandia Lagrange 4 colony.
“I really think I owe the win to my friends and family who
kept me motivated over the trip,” said Divad. “I’ve raced by
inhabiting cybershells, but the Solar Cup is significantly harder.
They make an effort to keep the pilots as close to a baseline
human as possible − three months in a stinky meat shell without
any pain overrides makes me appreciate my other bodies a lot
more. I’m just glad I lucked out towards the end, it was a tight
race all the way back from the Mars gravity slingshot.”
Divad had been in second place until an electrical fire in
Noguchi’s crew compartment forced him and his racer Eye of
Ra to drop out. The accident was one of several that have given
the Solar Cup a reputation for dangerously lax safety regulations and restrictive race rules that prevent automation of
piloting and repairs.

TERALOGOS NEWS: 2101, FIRST QUARTER

5

“We’re all very disappointed by the accident but we’ll be
back next year to get the Cup,” Team Noguchi chief engineer
Byron McMahon told reporters, speaking from the team’s base
at Bifrost Station, Earth orbit.
In third place was Sun Yue’s Feng Huang, one of five Marsbuilt vessels in this year’s race.
– filed by Kenneth Peters

NOTED PHILOSOPHER
TURNS ISOLATE
LOS ANGELES, United States/Teralogos: March 19, 2101
Citing increasing discontent with modern civilization,
renowned bioethicist and philosopher Thomas Takahashi
announced today that he would be retreating to an Isolate
community in Qinghai province, People’s Republic of China.
“By embracing biotechnology, human genetic engineering,
and cybernetic uploading, we have destroyed our own humanity,” said Takahashi. “I find I can no longer tolerate the
memetic dissonance that is a constant feature of Fifth Wave
existence. It’s long past time for me to withdraw and seek to
regain contact with my own human nature.” Takahashi did not
give a date for his move, but claimed that it would be “a matter of days.”
Takahashi will be joining the Gyaye Commune, an Isolate
community not far from Lake Kokonor in Qinghai province.
Gyaye Commune was established in 2093 by European
Preservationists, who chose the site due to its extremely
remote location. The community was built with the approval
of Chinese officials, who welcomed Europeans’ investment in
the local web infrastructure.
A full professor of bioethics at UCLA, Takahashi has long
been a passionate advocate for Preservationist ideas and a
critic of modern culture. His first book, After Man, was a runaway bestseller in 2083, earning him a global audience. He is a
close friend and confidante of U.S. President Roberto
Marquez. He will be giving up his current position at UCLA in
order to move to Gyaye Commune, although he announced
plans to serve as an occasional guest lecturer via telepresence.
– filed by Jon F. Zeigler

INVID REVIEW:
THE TEMPEST
Starring Kao Tsu, Jen Shan-Ta, Katrina Brandt, and
Kevin Lo; directed by Gupta Patel. Published by Calcutta
Interactive.
Over the last few years, Shakespeare’s final complete play
has suffered the most tragic fate which can overtake a classic
text; it has become relevant. I swear, if I see one more InVid
staging which transmutes Prospero’s island into an L-5 station,
with Ariel as an infomorph and Caliban as an experimental
bioroid, I’ll claw out my implant. The one substantial exception, I suppose, was Ivana Gore’s treatment; her “Globe
Reborn” sequence got around to The Tempest a couple of years
ago, just before it finished, as Gore obeyed her rule of strict
chronology. However, that was a slinky presentation. I’m told
by those who’ve chosen to investigate the medium that it was
a technical masterpiece; apparently, you could tell that the

experiencer was a sailor down among the groundlings, freshly
returned from months at sea, enjoying everything he’d missed
and eyeing up the women between acts. But absolutely nothing will convince me that Gore’s quixotic project was anything
more than a sterile exercise in “educational” reconstruction.
The play deserves better than to be treated as an excuse for
gimmickry of any kind.
Given that, you may be surprised to learn that I found
Gupta Patel’s new production surprisingly effective. It is modern dress, but I’m happy to say that Patel has found a new
angle. To begin with, he’s located it back on an island, apparently somewhere in the Indonesian archipelago, which, thank
god, means that the opening storm sequence makes some kind
of sense without massive rewriting. (We may even imagine that
this modern Prospero has access to weather mod technology,
but the idea isn’t forced on us.) And when the storm abates, we
see the most daring touch, as Prospero struts across his pocket
kingdom in the uniform of a TSA military officer.
The idea of the old wizard as a Nanosocialist may not be
entirely new, but previously he’s been depicted as, at most, a
Fifth Wave idealist, and an attractive spokesman. This
Prospero, however, looks suspiciously like a Thai war criminal,
hiding out from Chinese assassins as much as from the glib,
shallow memeticists and politicians who’ve exiled him and
classed him as “presumed dead.” Kao Tsu catches the part
superbly, with something of that horrible mixture of pride and
detachment we saw in the patchy post-Pacific War show trials.
It makes the ending of the play, normally so problematic to
modern audiences (or at least to transhumanists), as much a
confession of guilt as a renunciation of power. And we are
pleased by this; we may no longer believe in the dangers of
magic, but we believe in “Crimes Against Humanity.”

Am I prepared to
forgive Patel the modern
dress and the “relevance”?
The problem that this reading of the play does impose is
Prospero’s minions, who don’t seem to be spirits or monsters (or
AIs, or bioroids), but all too human lieutenants who must have
accompanied Prospero in his flight from defeat in the Pacific
War. Ariel, played with fine control by Jen Shan-Ta, is a dapper
staff officer-batman, responsible for the old man’s computer systems and also for the state of his uniform. (In one ostentatiously
restrained sequence, the InVid narrows down to a single wordless three minute sequence where the only available viewpoint is
from Ariel’s eyes as he polishes Prospero’s boots to a mirror
sheen, his own face slowly becoming visible in the jet black surface. This Ariel may not literally be the wizard’s creation, but he
exists to serve, and his identity is just a reflection.) Caliban
(Kevin Lo) is a bodyguard and a thug, and probably a torturer,
now grown bored with his position in the absence of anyone to
hurt. All of which is fine in itself, but makes much of
Shakespeare’s dialogue about the history of the relationship −
preserved intact in this production − weirdly incongruous.

TERALOGOS NEWS: 2101, FIRST QUARTER

6

Even as metaphors, calling Ariel and Caliban the former servant and the child of the witch Sycorax just doesn’t make sense
if they are soldiers from his old unit.
The production in general is naturalistic rather than realistic. There is no way that Katrina Brandt, who gives a neurotic,
fastidious performance as Miranda, could be Kao’s daughter,
whatever her mother’s origins and whatever genemods her
parents might have chosen. Patel completely eschews manipulating the visual images of his actors, enabling the fine detail of
their performances to shine through. The cast’s professional
backgrounds are diverse, although most of them come from
the East Asian theatrical world, but they’re all very good
(except for Paul Marcos, who sleepwalks through the part of
Ferdinand; he seems less transported by love, or concerned
with the possibility that his future father-in-law may be
inclined to xoxing and nanoplague warfare, than bored to be
away from a reliable Web link for 10 minutes). Many of the
viewpoints move close in to the cast’s faces at key moments,
and I found myself locking onto these, enthralled by the understated but emotive performances. The sets and locations are

handsome without distracting from the play, and again are
mostly real. Even the background music, compiled by the
Artistic SAI “Vivex” from historical sources, displays restraint
and fine judgment.
So, am I prepared to forgive Patel the modern dress and the
“relevance”? Well, maybe, almost. His heart’s in the right place.
It’s typical that the only synthespians in the cast are the ship’s
crew, glimpsed briefly at the start and end of the production; the
“illusory” actors in the magical masque are all real (although
they include several exotic bioroids). This might seem perverse,
but I think that it shows that Patel is not obsessed with spurious
relevance, but cares about the play’s origins, while remembering
that it is actually timeless. On the other hand, he seems so concerned with his big idea about Prospero that he forgets about
most of the rest of the cast. Antonio and the rest of Prospero’s
old foes are left as ciphers. Are they, we wonder, Chinese agents,
collaborators, nationalist moderates, or what? There is no clear
answer. But the fact that the question feels so appropriate is a
sign of the production’s quality.
– filed by Phil Masters

STUCK FOR AN ADVENTURE?
NO PROBLEM.
e23 sells high-quality game adventures
and supplements in PDF format.

● Get complete sample adventures free for GURPS, In Nomine, and Traveller!
● PDFs from the major players in online publishing: Ronin Arts, Ken Hite,
Atlas Games, and 01 Games.
● New gems from up-and-coming publishers, like Atomic Sock Monkey Press
and Expeditious Retreat Press.
● Digital editions of out-of-print classics, from Orcslayer and the complete
run of ADQ to GURPS China and GURPS Ice Age.
● Fully searchable files of GURPS Fourth Edition supplements.
● Original material for Transhuman Space and In Nomine, with new GURPS
supplements from Sean Punch, William Stoddard, David Pulver, and Phil Masters!
● Buy it once, have it always. Download your purchases again whenever you need to.

STEVE JACKSON GAMES

e23.sjgames.com

Download ● Print ● Play

STEVE JACKSON GAMES
e23 is part of Warehouse 23, the online store at Steve Jackson Games. Warehouse 23 is also the official Internet retailer for
Dork Storm Press, Atlas Games, and many other publishers. Visit us today at www.warehouse23.com for all your game STUFF!

TERALOGOS NEWS: 2101, FIRST QUARTER

7

