Written by Kenneth Peters
Additional material by David Pulver
Edited by Sean Punch
Illustrated by Christopher Shy

GURPS System Design ■ Steve Jackson
Creative Director ■ Philip Reed
Playtesters:
Frederick Brackin,
Jürgen Hubert,
Anthony Jackson,
M.A. Lloyd,
and Phil Masters.

Managing Editor ■ Andrew Hackard
GURPS Line Editor ■ Sean Punch

Transhuman Space Line Editor ■ David Pulver
Project Administrator ■ Monique Chapman
Production Artist ■ Philip Reed
Production Assistance ■ Wayne Barrett and Gene Seabolt
Print Buyer ■ Monica Stephens
GURPS Errata Coordinator ■ Andy Vetromile
Sales Manager ■ Ross Jepson

GURPS, Warehouse 23, and the all-seeing pyramid are registered trademarks of Steve Jackson Games
Incorporated. Transhuman Space, Pyramid, Spacecraft of the Solar System, and the names of all products
published by Steve Jackson Games Incorporated are registered trademarks or trademarks of Steve Jackson
Games Incorporated, or used under license. Transhuman Space: Spacecraft of the Solar System is copyright
© 2002 by Steve Jackson Games Incorporated. All rights reserved. Printed in the USA.
ISBN 1-55634-597-6

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10

STEVE JACKSON GAMES

INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3

1. LOCAL SPACE VEHICLES . . . . . .4

SURFACE-TO-SURFACE TRANSPORT . . . . . .5
Common Local Space
Vehicle Classes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5
Traveling as a Passenger . . . . . . . . . .6
WORKHORSES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7
Certifications and Licenses . . . . . . . . .8

2. CIVILIAN DEEP-SPACE
VESSELS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10

DEEP-SPACE TRANSPORTS . . . . . . . . . . . .11
Commercial Spacecraft Classes . . . .11
Triplanetary Lines . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12
Cargo Containers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14
Mars Interplanetary . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
PERSONAL SPACECRAFT . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16
Independents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17
Internal Fittings and Systems . . . . . .19
UNUSUAL DEEP-SPACE VEHICLES . . . . . .20
Bioships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .22

3. MILITARY VESSELS . . . . . . . .24

EUROPEAN SPACE CONTROL
AGENCY (ESCA) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25
A Fractured Fleet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25
Common Military
Spacecraft Classes . . . . . . . . . . . .25
Doctrine, Organization,
and Deployment . . . . . . . . . . . . . .26
Other ESCA Nations . . . . . . . . . . . . .27
PEOPLES’ LIBERATION ARMY NAVY
SPACE FORCE (PLAN-SF) . . . . . . .32
UNITED STATES AEROSPACE
FORCE (USAF) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .37
Deep Space Wings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .38
USTRANSCOM . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40
Shipboard Combat . . . . . . . . . . . . . .43
TRANSPACIFIC SOCIALIST
ALLIANCE (TSA) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .44
Rogue AKVs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .46

INDEX . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .48

ABOUT GURPS

Steve Jackson Games is committed to full support
of the GURPS system. Our address is SJ Games, Box
18957, Austin, TX 78760. Please include a selfaddressed, stamped envelope (SASE) any time you write
us! Resources include:
Pyramid (www.sjgames.com/pyramid/). Our
online magazine includes new GURPS rules and articles.
It also covers Dungeons and Dragons, Traveller, World
of Darkness, Call of Cthulhu, and many more top games
– and other Steve Jackson Games releases like In
Nomine, Illuminati, Car Wars, Toon, Ogre Miniatures,
and more. Pyramid subscribers also have access to
playtest files online!
New supplements and adventures. GURPS continues to grow, and we’ll be happy to let you know what’s
new. A current catalog is available for an SASE. Or check
out our website (below).
Errata. Everyone makes mistakes, including us –
but we do our best to fix our errors. Up-to-date errata
sheets for all GURPS releases, including this book, are
available from SJ Games; be sure to include an SASE. Or
download them from the Web – see below.

Gamer input. We value your comments, for new
products as well as updated printings of existing titles!
Internet. Visit us on the World Wide Web at
www.sjgames.com for an online catalog, errata, updates,
Q&A, and much more. GURPS has its own Usenet
group, too: rec.games.frp.gurps.
GURPSnet. This e-mail list hosts much of the
online discussion of GURPS. To join, e-mail majordomo@io.com with “subscribe GURPSnet-L” in the body,
or point your web browser to gurpsnet.sjgames.com.
The Spacecraft of the Solar System web page is
www.sjgames.com/transhuman/spacecraft/.

Page References
Rules and statistics in this book are specifically for
GURPS Basic Set, Third Edition Revised. Any page reference that begins with a B refers to GURPS Basic Set
– e.g., p. B102 means p. 102 of GURPS Basic Set, Third
Edition Revised. Page references that begin with CI indicate GURPS Compendium I; TS is Transhuman
Space. For a full list of abbreviations, see
p. CI181 or the updated list at www.sjgames.com/
gurps/abbrevs.html.

A

A

In the silence of space, there is
BOUT THE UTHOR
movement. Thousands of shapes
glide between worlds in a stately
The bioroid known as Kenneth L.
dance, propelled by fires hotter than
Peters has been playing roleplaying games
any sun, seeing with eyes of light.
since emerging from his exowomb. Since
These new chariots, with skins of
serving with the USMC as a MAGTF Planmetal and diamond, allow man to
ner, he has been observed playing GURPS,
move among the planets and seek his
Shadowrun, and 2300AD while infiltrating
fortune in the dawn of a new century.
the local educational facilities to acquire
Spacecraft provide the means
training in anthropology.
by which humanity has
spread from Earth to the
far reaches of the solar
system. From NASA’s
BOUT RANSHUMAN PACE
ill-fated Horus I to
The
Transhuman Space series presents a unique
the strange Nadezhda
hard-science
and high-biotech universe for roleplaying.
bioship, Transhuman
Set
in
the
solar
system in the year 2100, it is a setting
Space: Spacecraft of the
rich
in
adventure,
mystery, and exploration of the possiSolar System describes
bilities
of
existence.
The core book in the line is Transdozens of vessels, as
written
by David Pulver. It presents an
human
Space,
well as the organizations
overview
of
the
solar
system
of 2100.
that use them.

A

T

S

Local space vehicles are designed for
short-range operations rather than interplanetary flight. They range from powerful
heavy lift vehicles that boost hundreds of
tons of cargo into orbit to tiny

workpods that busily swarm around orbital
spaceports. Local space vehicles are the
most common vessels in the solar system;
many do not receive official names, only
numbers.

SURFACETO-SPACE
TRANSPORT

Spacecraft built to lift payloads into
Earth, Venus, or even Mars orbit, or to perform sustained suborbital flights, are very
different designs from deep-space craft.
Escaping the relatively high gravity is not
easy, and requires engines capable of sustaining multi-G burns for minutes at a time.

MERCURY-CLASS
HEAVY LIFT VEHICLE

The Columbia Aerospace Mercury is a
common laser-lift passenger transatmospheric vessel in use on Earth and Mars.
Although overshadowed by sleek TAVs
such as the Pegasus (p. TS192), these
HLVs are used for the majority of heavy
lift and personnel transport, and are the
most economical way to lift large numbers
of passengers into low Earth orbit. The
Mercury is not particularly sophisticated,
but it is reliable and cheap – a prime concern given the tight margins of the space
transport business.
The Mercury is quite large, with a conical streamlined hull measuring 55’ wide
and 95’ high when ready for launch. The
craft cannot take off or move under its own
power – it is towed to the launch site, and a
vertical gantry is used to raise it to an
upright position, with crew and passengers
boarding through a tower gate. The tight
passenger accommodations and overworked environmental systems can make
trips uncomfortable if there are significant
delays, although most orbital flights are
over relatively quickly. After the craft disembarks its cargo and passengers, it gets a
maintenance check, boards passengers and
cargo that are headed back to the surface,
and glides down to a spaceport – sometimes
the same one it lifted from, but just as
often a different port.

For security and space reasons,
passengers are rarely allowed carry-on
luggage, but each passenger is allowed up
to 10 cubic feet and 250 lbs. in the cargo
area as part of the ticket price, with extra
space or mass available for a fee. Total payload is approximately 1,576.3 tons, including 800 passengers and a full cargo load. A
launch on Earth requires 140 spaces of ablative plastic reaction mass, all of which is
used before entering orbit – effectively doubling its delta-v. Performance for the hydrogen-oxygen maneuvering rockets assumes
all of the ablative plastic has been expended. There are 23.33 spaces available for
future modifications. Batteries can power
all systems for 16.7 hours.

COMMON LOCAL SPACE
VEHICLE CLASSES

Heavy Lift Vehicle (HLV): A singlestage laser rocket (or sometimes a chemical rocket) designed to transport a load of
cargo into space.
Orbital Transfer Vehicle (OTV): A
cheap “space truck” for short-range hops
between adjacent orbital facilities, or for
quick voyages such as from Earth orbit to
Lunar orbit or L4/L5.
Transatmospheric Vehicle (TAV): A
single-stage-to-orbit or hypersonic suborbital cargo or passenger vehicle.
Workpod: A cheap one- or two-person
spacecraft with manipulator arms and a
simple chemical or fission rocket.
These are civilian vessels; see p. 25 for
military spacecraft classes.

Crew: Pilot (Electronics Operation (Communications), Electronics Operation
(Sensors), Piloting (Aerospace), Piloting (Low-Performance Spacecraft)).
NAI-run cybershells usually suffice as
stewards, as flights rarely last more
than a few hours and passengers are
restricted in their movements.

TRAVELING AS A PASSENGER

The biggest concern of passenger carriers in
2100 is security. Deadly accidents and crashes
caused by air hijackers in the early 21st century
prompted draconian policies for the first commercial spacecraft. There have been several
cycles of easing and tightening security in the
wake of various real or perceived threats; in particular, tensions following the Pacific War and
the attack on the Mars space elevator have led to
heightened levels of alertness. In 2100, fairly
strict security precautions are a fact of life on
both aerospace and local space transports, especially in Mars and Earth-Lunar space, and
around Mercury.
Security starts before passengers are permitted to board the craft. Passengers are subjected to
a battery of tests to check for weapons and contraband. Major spaceports in the inner solar system (Mercury to Mars) have especially tight
security, as everyone knows just how much
damage a suicidal TAV could cause. Chemsniffers and surveillance dust are everywhere, and
an attempt to evade or disrupt the monitoring
will result in a cavity search and HyMRI scan;
airport and spaceport security are extremely
unsympathetic toward anyone who does not play
by the rules. Most ports also conduct biological
spot testing of the environment and random

passengers in order to control the possible spread
of disease and detect known criminals. An airport or spaceport should be considered CR 4 in
the receiving area, CR 5 in the boarding area.
Civilian port security personnel are usually
unarmed, or armed only with electrolasers
(p. TS155), but are backed up by armed guards
or cybershells, and – in large or sensitive ports –
by specialized paramilitary forces or even nearby military garrisons.
Aboard the craft, the most important security precaution is that the passengers and pilot
(living or infomorph) never interact directly.
On aerospace vehicles, the crew compartment
is only accessible through a separate external
entryway. It is completely isolated from the
rest of the craft, and includes its own foodpreparation equipment and restrooms. The
bulkhead separating the two areas is often
armored for additional protection.
Except on long-duration trips, passengers
are restricted in their movements. It only takes
one clumsy individual to upset a lot of people,
never mind injure himself or others. Dedicated
NAIs keep an eye on passengers, alert for suspicious behavior. On space vessels, passengers
are usually asked to strap in for burns of 0.05 G
or more.

Design: Streamlined cylinder (459.8
spaces, foamed alloy, medium frame);
cDR/cPF 3/1F, 1/1S, 1/1B (aluminum
armor).
Modules: Old cockpit; small PESA; small
fixed radar [F]; 25 compact laser rocket; 0.5 compact hydrogen-oxygen rocket; 45 tanks (hydrogen-oxygen); 6
luxury cabin; 50 passenger seats; 2
small entry module; 2 large entry module; 0.5 battery; 300 cargo (1,500 tons).
Statistics: EMass 1,105; CMass 2,900;
LMass 3,819. Cost M$30.5. cHP 338.
Size Modifier +6/+8. HT 12. Maintenance Interval: 3.62 hours. RRA 0.
Performance: Laser Rocket: sAccel: 2.59
G. Burn Endurance: 0.09 hours (5.4
minutes). Burn Points: 840. Delta-

V: 2.56 mps. No air speed. HO Rocket:
sAccel: 0.09 G. Burn Endurance: 0.091
hours (5.46 minutes). Burn Points: 30.
Delta-V: 0.09 mps. No air speed.

MOLNIYA BALLISTIC
RAMJET TAV

The RKK Livanov Molniya (Russian
for “lightning”) is a large transport designed
for hypersonic flights through Earth’s upper
atmosphere. It can fly from Los Angeles to
Beijing in under an hour, or connect New
York City to Paris in half an hour.
Ballistic transports face stiff competition from transonic turbofan transports,
especially as telepresence has eroded the
need for fast transportation, but they

WORKHORSES

remain in use for business travelers
and fast package delivery. Ruthless market pressures make travel on ballistic transports relatively inexpensive, although
accommodations are spartan and perks are
few. In this cutthroat market, Livanov is one
of the few companies that produce ballistic
liners in any quantity.
The Molniya is a 200’-long, 120’-wide
streamlined delta. With a full load of 320
passengers and 25 tons of cargo, the payload is 55.3 tons.

BUMBLEBEE WORKPOD

Crew: Pilot and Copilot (Electronics Operation (Communications), Electronics
Operation (Sensors), Piloting (Aerospace)); 2 Stewards (Diplomacy,
Savoir-Faire (Servant)).
Design: Streamlined delta (512 spaces, carbon composite, light frame, smart,
responsive, lifting body); cDR/cPF
1.4/1F, 1/1S, 1/1B (carbon composite
armor).
Modules: Old basic bridge; small fixed
radar [F]; 30 compact turbo-scramjet;
450 tanks (ultralight, jet fuel); 20 passenger seats; small entry module; 2
large entry module; 1 battery; 5 cargo
(25 tons).
Statistics: EMass 640; CMass 3,125;
LMass 5,555. Cost M$166.09. cHP
240. Size Modifier +9. HT 12. Maintenance Interval: 3.1 hours. RRA 0.
Performance: No space performance. Fuel
Endurance: 10 hours. Air Speed: 6,635
mph (1.84 mps). Stall Speed: 356 mph.

Crew: Pilot (Electronics Operation (Communications), Piloting (High-Performance Spacecraft)).

In terms of sheer numbers, these vessels are the most common spacecraft in the
solar system. The equivalent of tugs, shuttle
buses, and pickup trucks, they are as indispensable as they are unglamorous.

The Vosper-Babbage Bumblebee is a
small, one-man spacecraft designed to
assist in orbital construction projects.
Dozens of these craft can be seen around
most large construction facilities. Eurospatiale and Tenzan Heavy Industries manufacture similar designs. It is rare to see a
Bumblebee that is not personalized to some
extent, with the owner’s name hand-painted
on the hull or animated corporate logos
playing on the surface.
The workpod is a simple sphere, 15’ in
diameter. Its liquid-crystal surface displays
a safety-yellow pattern by default, but most
operators replace sections of this pattern
with colorful designs to differentiate the
craft visually. Behind the pilot are the fuel
tanks holding water for the fission drive. All
but the most foolhardy pilot wears a vacc
suit, as accidents around crowded habitats
can occur even with AI traffic management.

CERTIFICATIONS AND LICENSES

Hundreds of thousands of people live
and work in space, but only a fraction have
the skills needed to crew a space vessel. To
weed out unqualified personnel, businesses
and insurance companies often require
prospective crews to possess appropriate certifications and licenses from recognized testing facilities.
The following licenses are common. The
GM is encouraged to make up his own; it is
a convenient way of listing qualifications for
NPCs. Licensing and certification fees vary
by location and testing facility; a typical
charge is $1,000, with a yearly retest costing
$200.
S-License: The most basic space
license. It certifies that the individual is not a
hazard to those around him. It is a prerequisite for all other space certifications and
licenses. Requires Free Fall-10 and Computer Operation-10 – and Vacc Suit-10 for biosapients incapable of operating unprotected
in vacuum.

Design: Sphere hull (3.375 spaces, foamed
alloy, light frame); cDR/cPF 1/1 (titanium alloy armor). Liquid-crystal skin.
Modules: Old cockpit; small radar; 0.25
compact fission drive (water reaction
mass); 1.7 tanks (ultralight, water); 2
small robot arms; 0.5 battery.
Statistics: EMass 23; CMass 36; LMass
49. Cost M$2.91. cHP 5. Size Modifier
+3. HT 12. Maintenance Interval:
11.73 hours. RRA 0.
Performance: sAccel: 0.84 G. Burn
Endurance: 0.08 hours (4.8 minutes).
Burn Points: 240. Delta-V: 0.74 mps.
No air speed.

SCHAFFER ORBITAL
TRANSFER VEHICLE

An upgraded version of a NASA
design, the Columbia Aerospace Schaffer
was one of the first mass-produced

Pilot’s License: Certification in a particular Piloting specialty. Requires Piloting-11
in that specialty. Most licensing agencies also
require familiarity with the specific craft the
pilot would be flying.
Host Services: Sometimes called the
“good cookie,” this certification is generally
required for anyone who works as a steward
or flight attendant aboard a spacecraft.
Requires First Aid-9, Savoir-Faire (Servant)11, and 100 hours (1/2 point) of training in
Freight Handling.
Operations License: Requires Electronics Operation (Communications)-12 and
Electronics Operation (Sensors) -12. Habitat
operations licenses usually require some
level of Administration skill as well.
Certified Medical Technician (CMT):
Requires Diagnosis-12, Electronics Operation (Medical)-12, and First Aid-12.

OTVs, and played a significant role in the
early colonization of Earth-Lunar space.
The first chemical rocket-powered Schaffer
entered service in 2020 with NASA and the
ESA. Production ceased in 2076, after
decades of service and a multitude of
upgrades. Most of the original operators
replaced these vehicles with more advanced
craft, such as the Kagoshima (p. TS191).
Many were sold off into private hands and
to businesses; a handful were transported to
Mars.
Today, these craft are extremely
common in LEO and the L5 Junk Jungle,
often operated by independent cargo
haulers or by the “vacuum cleaners” who
sweep out orbital debris. Many have
undergone
modifications,
ranging
from the installation of more advanced
drives and cockpits to “meteor-defense”
weaponry; it’s rare to see an original factory model. The version listed here is

representative of the most common
combination of modifications.
The hull is a cylinder 45’ long and 22’
wide. The two solar panels are 45’ × 45’,
and help recharge the batteries, which can
power the vessel for 49.6 hours. Typical
payload is 148.5 tons. There are 3.6 spaces
remaining for additional modifications.
Crew: Pilot/Navigator (Astrogation, Piloting (Low-Performance Spacecraft));
Communications/Sensor
Operator
(Electronics Operation (Communications), Electronics Operation (Sensors)); Steward/Cargo Master (Freight
Handling, Savoir-Faire (Servant)).
Design: Cylinder hull (34.848 spaces, titanium alloy, light frame); cDR/cPF
1/1F, 1/1S, 1/1B (titanium alloy
armor).
Modules: Old basic bridge; small PESA;
fixed medium radar [F]; 1 HI fusion
torch (water); 15 tanks (water); cabin; 2
passenger seats; small entry module; 5
battery; external cradle (125 tons); 4
ksf solar panels; 4 cargo (20 tons).
Statistics: EMass 179; CMass 440; LMass
553. Cost M$12.26. cHP 30. Size Modifier +4/+5. HT 12. Maintenance Interval: 5.71 hours. RRA 0.
Performance: sAccel: 0.003 G. Burn
Endurance: 625 hours. Burn Points:
6,750. Delta-V: 20.6 mps. No air speed.
Variant: Salvage operators unable to
afford a more expensive purposedesigned salvage vessel often settle for
the “Angry Schaffer.” Replace the two

Salvage
operators often
settle for the
“Angry
Schaffer.”

passenger seats with a 2.5-MJ light
laser tower, an additional 2 cargo
spaces, and a 1-space power pack
(18 shots). They usually do not load
their external cradle. EMass 195;
CMass 338; LMass 450. Cost
M$14.97. sAccel: 0.004. Burn Points:
9,000. Delta-V: 27.5 mps.

TAHMAS INTERSTATION
TRANSPORT POD

The Tahmas (Hebrew for “nighthawk”)
transport is a Columbia Aerospace design
that dates back almost 20 years, with the
first model entering production in 2081. It is
a utilitarian craft that shuttles small cargoes
of people and goods between the teeming
orbital habitats in Earth-Lunar space. The
forward cockpit is directly connected to the
passenger compartment, and a standard
bulkhead door leads right into the storage
area.
The transport is a cylinder only 20’
long and 10’ wide, so there is little room to
exercise or relax. The air filtration units are
notoriously unreliable if used for long periods of time. Many owners replace the entire
life-support system with new modules to
make lengthy trips more comfortable. Typical payload is 3.4 tons. The batteries can
power all systems for 8 hours.
Crew: Pilot (Astrogation, Electronics
Operation (Communications), Electronics Operation (Sensors), Piloting
(Low-Performance Spacecraft)).
Design: Cylinder hull (3.2 spaces, titanium
alloy, heavy frame); cDR/cPF 0.5/1F,
0.2/1S, 0.2/1B (titanium alloy armor).
Modules: Old cockpit; small fixed radar
[F]; 0.25 HI fusion torch; 1 tanks
(hydrogen); 0.5 passenger seats; small
entry module; 0.2 battery; 0.5 cargo
(2.5 tons).
Statistics: EMass 15; CMass 19; LMass
19. Cost M$1.41. cHP 6. Size Modifier
+2/+3. HT 12. Maintenance Interval:
16.8 hours. RRA 0.
Performance: sAccel: 0.005 G. Burn
Endurance: 100 hours. Burn Points:
1,800. Delta-V: 5.5 mps. No air speed.

Civilians own the vast majority of the
hundreds of space vessels active in the solar
system. Post-Pacific War advances in vessel
construction and the development of relatively cheap fusion pulse drives have
reduced the cost of operating and maintaining interplanetary craft to the point where
moderately wealthy individuals can

afford space flight. Large corporations
(often with government subsidies) operate
fleets of heavy transports that move goods
and people between Earth and its colonies.
Meanwhile, independent entrepreneurs,
research foundations, and the extremely
rich own or lease a growing number of
vessels.

DEEP-SPACE
TRANSPORTS

equipment that feeds rock dust from
the cargo bays. Typical payload (excluding rock dust) is 252.3 tons, while 200
spaces of cargo are dedicated to rock dust
(5,200 tons). Trade goods and other spacecraft are carried on external cradles, for a
total payload of 502.3 tons. There are 24.5
spaces remaining for additional expansions.

The independent cargo haulers receive
most of the media’s attention, but large corporations are responsible for over 90% of
Crew: Pilot/Navigator (Astrogation, Pilotall shipments. The largest of these firms,
ing (Low-Performance Spacecraft));
Mars Interplanetary and Triplanetary Lines,
Communications/Sensor
Operator
are responsible for the majority of bulk
(Electronics Operation (Communicaspace transport in 2100. However, small
tions), Electronics Operation (Sensors));
independent companies and even crewCargo Master (Freight Handling).
operated “freehaulers” abound. Sometimes
operating out of remodeled vessels
whose original hulls date back to
the “second age of sail,” they perform jobs the big companies will
OMMERCIAL
not touch – even if that means
transporting illegal or restricted
PACECRAFT LASSES
goods.
Deep-Space Operations Vehicle (DSOV): A
long-endurance vessel used to establish outposts or
conduct scientific expeditions.
OLUB LASS
Executive Space Vehicle (ESV): A small, privately
operated
vessel optimized for high delta-v and
TILITY PACE
comfort.
EHICLE
Heavy Space Transport Vehicle (HSTV): A
heavy,
deep-space cargo vessel.
AVPK Moiseyev’s GolubPassenger
Space Vehicle (PSV): A fusion-drive
class USV is one of the few
“fastliner”
with
spin gravity and lots of cabins.
vessels to use mass-driver
Utility
Space
Vehicle (USV): A generic
propulsion. Originally designed
“freighter”
used
to
carry
people, haul cargo, and perfor near-Earth asteroid mining
form
other
workhorse
tasks.
Often operated by coroperations in the 2050s, various
porate
fleets.
refurbished examples remain in
use today. Its main users are
fringe asteroid, Lunar-orbit, and
L5 communities who have bought
second- or third-hand vessels. Many serve
Design: Cylinder hull (640 spaces, titanium
as glorified interstation transports,
alloy, light frame); cDR/cPF 5/2F,
although the craft is also popular with sur1/1S, 1/1B (foamed alloy armor). Hull
vivalists thanks to its lack of a visible drive
radiators (4 ksf). Liquid-crystal skin.
signature. “Golub” is Russian for “dove,”
Modules: Old basic bridge; small PESA;
and vessels in the class were originally
small fixed radar [F]; 2 2.5-MJ light
named after birds; however, their current
laser towers [S]; 15 mass driver engine
owners have renamed most of those still in
(rock dust); 4 bunkroom; large entry
service.
module; minifac workshop; 2 rock
Constructed from materials readily
crusher; 33 old fission reactor (64
available in the asteroids and translunar
MW); 1 battery; 1 power pack; 2 exterspace, the vessel is a cylinder 250’ long and
nal cradles (250 tons each); 550 cargo
40’ wide. Much of the length is dedicat(rock dust, 14,300 tons).
ed to the mass-driver engine and

G
U
V

-C
S

S

C

C

TRIPLANETARY LINES

Triplanetary Lines is a comparatively old
space transport company, founded in 2056 by a
consortium of forward-thinking investors from
the United States, Norway,
Korea, and the Gulf States. They
were the first to offer regular
scheduled service between
Earth, Mars, and Mercury
(hence the company name). In
the 2080s, they pioneered commercial service to the larger
Main Belt stations and Saturn.
Triplanetary Lines was also the
first major carrier to use fusion
pulse drives. Their early investment in this technology gave
them an edge, especially in the
Deep Beyond market – although
in recent years, aggressive competition from Mars Interplanetary has eroded their share of the
lucrative Earth-Mars route.
In 2095, Triplanetary Lines’ space crews
voted to unionize in the face of possible
replacement by infomorphs and bioroids. Organized as the Farhauler’s Guild, they consolidated employee-held stock, giving them much
influence with the board of directors. Employee benefit programs are generous, even by 2100
standards; the health package goes so far as to
cover some performance-enhancing nanomods.
On the other hand, employees are expected to
work more hours over a longer period than is
usual in 2100.
Triplanetary Lines has been attempting to
regain its share of the Earth-Mars trade, which
is presently dominated by Mars Interplanetary.

Statistics: EMass 1,036; CMass 8,688;
LMass 15,838. Cost M$36.68. cHP
259. Size Modifier +5/+10. HT 12.
Maintenance Interval: 3.31 hours.
RRA 4.
Performance: sAccel: 0.00017 G. Burn
Endurance: 1,833.33 hours. Burn
Points: 1,120. Delta-V: 3.428 mps.
No air speed.

They are offering generous discount packages
to businesses and individuals willing to sign
long-term shipping agreements for business
worth $5,000,000 or more a year.
Shipping contracts require an upfront payment of at least
$20,000,000, which is set aside as
credit. All shipping rates are then
5% or more below normal, with
charges coming off the credit
before additional billing. Unofficially, the company also offers a
“streamlined bureaucracy” (“no
questions asked”) policy for certain clients who request “discretion” about what they want
carried.
Triplanetary primarily operates PSVs and USVs, with a
handful of HSTVs for the EarthSaturn and Earth-Mercury runs.
Typical Triplanetary vessels
include the Sudbury (p. TS191) and Meizi (p.
TS193) classes, as well as a few Spokane (pp.
14-15) and Zhongguang (p. 16) craft. For shipping cargo on relatively unprofitable routes
(such as Venus and some Belt colonies), it operates low-cost automated slowhaulers such as
the Parus plasma sail craft (pp. 13-14). The
company has considered purchasing an antimatter pulse drive craft as a passenger flagship
for the Earth-Saturn route, but no decision has
been made. It currently uses freelancers and
independents for any trips that require faster
travel times than those attainable with its existing fleet. These subcontractors must use
Farhauler’s Guild crews.

MOCHI-CLASS
PASSENGER SPACE
VEHICLE

Manufactured in 2085 by South
African aerospace concern MDB Integrated Systems, the Mochi class (named

after African mountains and rivers) is
popular with independents looking for a
relatively inexpensive craft that can be used
for a wide variety of tasks. Its most common role is as a fast, cheap passenger
transport and cargo hauler, where it
fills a niche between the Sudbury
class and the Meizi class. The
largest operator is Triplanetary
Lines, with nine Mochi-class vessels
in service on mixed cargo-passenger
runs to Mercury, the Main Belt, and Saturn,
where the full capacity of a Meizi would be
excessive.
The Mochi’s hull is a cylinder 200’ long
and 45’ wide. At the midsection, two 120’
spin arms connect two identical 30’-long,
15’-wide cylinders. These spin capsules can
generate up to 0.4 G at maximum rate, but a
more comfortable level of 0.12 G is usual. A
typical payload is 806.5 tons. There are 13.4
empty spaces in the main hull – often used
to install additional passenger quarters or
amenities such as zero-G pools.
Crew: Commander/Pilot (Astrogation,
Electronics Operation (Communications), Electronics Operation (Sensors), Piloting (Low-Performance
Spacecraft)); 6 Engineers (Mechanic
(Fusion Drive), Mechanic (Robotics),
other Mechanic skills as appropriate));
Medic
(Diagnosis,
Physician,
Surgery); Cargo Master (Administration, Freight Handling).
Design: [Hull] Cylinder hull (648 spaces,
carbon composite, heavy frame,
smart); cDR/cPF 5/1F, 2/1S, 3/1B
(metal matrix composite armor). [Pod
#1 and #2] Cylinder hull (10.8 spaces,
metal matrix composite, medium
frame); cDR/cPF 1/1F, 1/1S, 1/1B
(metal matrix composite armor). Hull
radiators (25 ksf).
Modules: [Hull] New basic bridge; medium PESA; medium radar; 50 HI fusion
pulse drive; 400 tanks (ultralight,
nuclear pellets); 2 cabin; 4 luxury
cabin; 2 passenger seats; 2 large entry
module; small entry module; minifac
workshop; light storm shelter (2-space:
encloses passenger seats, cPF 100);

Parus are
unmanned
craft, as trip
times of two
years or more
per AU are not
unheard of.
5 battery; surgery; 150 cargo (750
tons). [Pods] 5 cabin; 5 cargo (25 tons).
Statistics: EMass 2,026; CMass 5,233;
LMass 7,633. Cost M$148.22. cHP
[Hull] 961, [Pods] 27. Size Modifier
[Hull] +5/+9, [Pods] +3/+4. HT 12.
Maintenance Interval: 3.29 hours.
RRA 25.
Performance: sAccel: 0.04 G. Burn
Endurance: 200 hours. Burn Points:
28,800. Delta-V: 88 mps. No air speed.

PARUS-CLASS HEAVY
SPACE TRANSPORT
VEHICLE

The Parus (Russian for “sail”) was one
of the first deep-space transports – although
it would likely be classified as an USV
rather than as an HSTV by 2100 standards.
It played a crucial role in colonization and
development programs during the “second
age of sail.”
These are unmanned craft, as trip times
of two years or more per AU are not
unheard of. Over two dozen of the craft
were constructed at great cost by 2050.
Only a half-dozen remain in service today,
hauling cargo from Mars to the Belt and
back. Individual craft are named after
famous sailing vessels.

CARGO CONTAINERS

Cargo is never simply piled up in a vessel.
To ensure proper stowage and protection, it is
either palletized or loaded into sealed containers for shipment. This can be assumed without
further elaboration when cargo is carried internally; however, when cargo is carried externally, it can be useful to have statistics for the
containers themselves.
Design: All containers are built as
steel box hulls with ultra-light frames
(see High Frontier). They are armored
with 0.2 cDR of steel armor. They can
fold down to 5% of their original height.
Accessing a container normally means unsealing it. To avoid this, install an airlock.
Very Small: 4’ × 8’ × 6’. 0.384 spaces (192
cf). 1 ton. M$0.001. cHP 0.
Small: 10’ × 8’ × 8’. 1.28 spaces (640 cf).
2 ton. M$0.002. cHP 1.
Average: 10’ × 10’ × 8’. 1.6 spaces (800
cf). 3 tons. M$0.003. cHP 1.
The 30’-by-17’ cylinder hull is dwarfed
by the plasma sail, and is practically invisible
within the plasma trail produced. The sight is
quite breathtaking, and is often featured in
educational programs dealing with the early
days of space travel. A typical payload is 125
tons carried on the external cradle.
Crew: Unmanned. Infomorph occupies
unmanned controls and uses Electronics Operation (Communications), Electronics Operation (Sensors), and
Piloting (Plasma Sail).
Design: Cylinder hull (13.872 spaces, carbon composite, light frame); cDR/cPF
1/1F, 1/1S, 1/1B (carbon composite
armor).
Modules: Old unmanned controls; small
PESA; 1 plasma sail; 8 tanks (ultralight, hydrogen); 0.1 battery; 1.5 old
fission reactor (1 MW); 1 external cradle (125 tons).
Statistics: EMass 46; CMass 175; LMass
179. Cost M$11.79. cHP 16. Size Modifier +4/+4. HT 12. Maintenance Interval: 5.82 hours. RRA 0.

Large: 20’ × 8’ × 8’. 2.56 spaces (1,280
cf). 4 tons. M$0.004. cHP 1.
Very Large: 40’ × 8’ × 8’. 5.12 spaces
(2,560 cf). 8 tons. M$0.008. cHP 2.
Containers can be given climate controls
(-30°F to 230°F) for M$0.0005 and 0.0025
MW per space. All climate-controlled
containers include a rechargeable Dcell (5 kWh) as a backup power supply.
Containers can be fitted with airlocks and life support and used as
sealed lab modules, or equipped with
modules such as rock crushers
(p. TS184) and loaded onto a vessel as needed.
They can even be unloaded and modified into
housing and storage – which is not uncommon
in L5’s Junk Jungle. Military units often deploy
connected containers to form an “instant base,”
using earthmoving equipment and armor plates
to add reinforcement.

Performance: sAccel: 0.00006 G. Burn
Endurance: 8,000 hours. Burn Points:
1,730. Delta-V: 5.28 mps. No air speed.

SPOKANE-CLASS
HEAVY SPACE
TRANSPORT VEHICLE

Designed in 2092 by Columbia Aerospace, the Spokane class is a new HSTV
concept that departs from the design philosophy used in older heavy transports. Rather
than hauling cargo in internal holds, most of
its payload is carried on external cradles.
Four of the cradles, located near the front of
the craft, have entry modules incorporated
for easy access to the attached payload. This
results in a smaller hull that is far cheaper
than many comparable heavy transports.
Twenty vessels have been purchased to
date, primarily by the large shipping cartels.
Individual vessels are usually named after
Native American tribes.

Crews appreciate the fact that the
Spokane has enough cabins for individual occupancy, and that its common areas
are roomier than most. However, some
operators dislike the fact that the passage
tube leading from the habitation section to
the engineering access room at the rear of

MARS INTERPLANETARY

Partially owned by the Xiao Chu Corporation, Mars Interplanetary (MIp) was
responsible for moving the vast majority of
the current Mars and Mercury colonists to
their new homes. Thanks to its role in the
spread of humanity to other planets, the
company enjoys considerable prestige,
especially in China.
Members of the Farhauler’s Guild do
not share this favorable opinion. In 2079,
Mars Interplanetary replaced most of its
human employees with bioroids and
NAIs. MIp maintains that it simply could
not operate at its previous staffing levels
and remain competitive, especially since
demand for its large colony transports was
falling as the Mars colony became more
self-sufficient. The Farhauler’s Guild disputes these claims, while attempting to
convince people that Mars Interplanetary
vessels are less safe than human-crewed
vessels.
Mars Interplanetary is the largest operator of HSTVs and PSVs in the solar system, with a dozen Zhongguang- and
Meizi-class transports. The bulk of its business is still shipping cargo and personnel
between Earth and Mars, but it has been
recruiting independents to expand its operations to Mercury and Saturn. These contracts often cover a set number of trips;
only proven independents are offered longterm associations or the possibility of
incorporation into the Mars Interplanetary
fleet. Farhauler’s Guild members refuse to
work for Mars Interplanetary, and consider
any independent who signs up with MIp to
be a traitor.

the vessel is not pressurized, and
regard the fact that this tube tends to be
rendered impassible by any unrepaired
combat damage to the side of the hull as the
design’s one real flaw.
The hull is 390’ long and 50’ wide,
studded with external cradles. Each cradle
can carry up to three loaded Very Large
cargo containers. The Spokane’s retractable
radiators are longer than they are wide,
measuring 50’ × 450’; their angle can be
adjusted slightly to accommodate different
cargo pod layouts.
To assist in loading and unloading
external cargo, the Spokane is outfitted with
several robotic arms that can travel the
entire length of the hull on rails. These are
often used in conjunction with several Naga
snakebots (p. TS124) to position small
cargo containers or help secure large ones.
Most Spokanes carry one or two Bumblebee
workpods (pp. 7-8) for assistance in moving
larger cargo. Total payload, including fully
loaded cradles and 100 tons of small craft,
is 5,351.5 tons. There are 9.65 spaces available for additional modifications. Should
the main drive fail, the batteries can power
all systems for 4.8 hours.
Crew: Pilot/Navigator (Astrogation,
Piloting (Low-Performance Spacecraft));
Communications/Sensor
Operator (Electronics Operation
(Communications), Electronics Operation (Sensors)); 2 Cargo Masters
(Administration, Freight Handling).
Design: Cylinder hull (1,560 spaces, carbon composite, heavy frame, smart);
cDR/cPF 5/1F, 3/1S, 5/1B (carbon
composite armor). Hull radiators (10
ksf), folding radiator wings (40 ksf).
Modules: New basic bridge; small PESA;
medium radar; 100 HI fusion pulse
drive; 850 tanks (ultralight, nuclear
pellets); 6 cabin; 6 large entry module;
2 large robot arms; 2 medium robot
arms; minifac workshop; light storm
shelter (1-space: encloses bridge, cPF
100); spacedock hangar (40’ long, 20’
wide, 20’ high: 32 spaces); 22 external
cradles (125 tons each); surgery; 1 battery; 500 cargo (2,500 tons).

Statistics: EMass 3,964; CMass
14,415; LMass 19,515. Cost
M$282.08. cHP 1,992. Size Modifier
[Hull] +6/+10, [Radiators] +9. HT 12.
Maintenance Interval: 2.38 hours.
RRA 50.
Performance: sAccel: 0.03 G. Burn
Endurance: 212.5 hours. Burn Points:
22,950. Delta-V: 70.125 mps. No air
speed.

ZHONGGUANG-CLASS
HEAVY SPACE
TRANSPORT VEHICLE

The MAST-designed Zhongguang
(“China”)-class HSTV is the largest space
vessel ever built, designed to transport
immense amounts of high-value cargo (such
as robofacs or pods of colonists in nanostasis) across interplanetary distances. The vessel was introduced in 2083, but early
examples were plagued with design problems, including defects in the life-support
and fire-suppression systems that led to several deaths. These have since been fixed, and
the vessel is now the standard by which all
other fusion-driven HSTVs are measured.
The vessels retain certain quirks, however. Perhaps the most vexing is that the
engine and neck sections have underpowered temperature and humidity control systems. Parts of the engine room often feel
like a sauna, while fungal growths in isolated areas of the vessel are fairly common due
to condensation. Some crews install their
own workarounds, which can give Zhongguang interiors the appearance of mechanical jungles filled with tubes, pipes, and
homebuilt air conditioners.
The Zhongguang is a three-part combination hull design. The front portion is the
crew quarters, consisting of a 25’-diameter
sphere connected to a box 40’ long by 10’
wide by 10’ high that houses the main
access hatches and workshops. Attached to
the rear of this is a much larger box hull
measuring 200’ long by 80’ wide by 50’
high that serves as the cargo hold. Immediately behind that area is the drive and fuel
module: a massive cylinder 110’ wide

and 100’ long. Total actual surface
area is 109.9 ksf. A typical payload masses 8,001.5 tons.
Crew: Commander (Leadership, Piloting
(Low-Performance Spacecraft)); Second Officer/Navigator (Astrogation,
Electronics Operation (Communications), Electronics Operation (Sensors),
Piloting (Low-Performance Spacecraft)); 15 Engineers (Mechanic
(Fusion Drive), Mechanic (Robotics),
other Mechanic skills as appropriate); 4
Cargo Masters (Administration,
Freight Handling).
Design: [Crew] Sphere hull (15.63 spaces);
[Neck] box hull (8 spaces); [Cargo] box
hull (1,600 spaces); [Engine] cylinder
hull (1,936 spaces); [All] foamed alloy,
medium frame, smart; [All] cDR/cPF
1/1 (metal matrix composite armor).
Hull radiators (20 ksf).
Modules: [Crew] Old basic bridge; medium radar; 2 bunkroom; cabin; light
storm shelter (2-space: encloses
bunkrooms, cPF 100). [Neck] 2 fixed
small PESA [F/S]; 4 large entry module; 2 minifac workshop. [Cargo] 1,600
cargo (8,000 tons). [Engine] 36 HI
fusion pulse drive; 1,900 tanks (ultralight, nuclear pellets).
Statistics: EMass 4,172; CMass 23,574;
LMass 34,974. Cost M$387.55. cHP
[Crew] 29, [Neck] 27, [Cargo] 900,
[Engine] 818. Size Modifier [Crew] +4,
[Neck] +5, [Cargo] +7/+9, [Engine]
+8/+8. HT 12. Maintenance Interval:
2.03 hours. RRA 18.
Performance: sAccel: 0.006 G. Burn
Endurance: 1,319.44 hours. Burn
Points: 28,500. Delta-V: 87 mps. No air
speed.

PERSONAL

SPACECRAFT

The prices and availability of highperformance spacecraft put them in reach of
wealthy individuals or small groups.
Many private spacecraft are refitted or

second-hand models dating back to
the Pacific War or the “second age of
sail.”

MOJAVE EXECUTIVE
SPACE VEHICLE

Scaled Composites’ flagship design,
the Mojave, sets the standard for luxury personal spacecraft. Fast yet relatively economical, the craft can reach Mars in less
than a month at an operating cost of under
half a million dollars. An Earth-Mars-Earth
round trip can be done on one load of
nuclear pellets in approximately two
months. In case of attack, or for meteor
defense, it has two tower-mounted light
lasers.
Mojave craft are named much like sailboats, without any particular rhyme or reason. The design is popular among the idle
rich, and Scaled Composites has sold nearly 30 of the craft since the design was introduced in 2093.
The hull is a streamlined cylinder 95’
long and 25’ wide. The craft has the distinctive Scaled Composites organic styling:
absolutely no rough edges, and tasteful preprogrammed color patterns for the liquidcrystal coating. The light laser towers
retract into blisters on the “top” and “bottom” of the craft so as not to present an
unsightly militaristic profile, and can fire
four shots each before the power pack needs
to recharge. Typical payload is 11.1 tons.

Crew: Pilot/Navigator (Astrogation, Piloting (Low-Performance Spacecraft));
Communications/Sensor
Operator
(Electronics Operation (Communications), Electronics Operation (Sensors)). As a practical matter, the owner
of the vessel usually directs an infomorph pilot, with the bridge serving
more as a lounge area and safety zone
in case of high radiation levels.
Design: Streamlined cylinder (95 spaces,
metal matrix composite, extra-heavy
frame, smart); cDR/cPF 14/1F, 5/1S,
5/1B (diamondoid armor). Hull radiators (5 ksf). Liquid-crystal skin.

INDEPENDENTS

Dozens of independent cargo vessels
operate in the solar system. These “freehaulers” work outside the carefully managed
and calculated schedules and routes of the big
commercial carriers – and often outside the
law. There is no system-wide law-enforcement
organization. It’s all just a matter of finding
buyers and locating what they want.
The oldest independent outfits are owned
by individuals and companies that took
advantage of the initial expansion into space.
Newer independents are often the result of
these older companies going out of business,
their former employees striking out on their
own and acquiring second-hand spacecraft or
forming partnerships with colonial businesses. Still other independents are colonial entrepreneurs, often hailing from the asteroids or
the Lagrange colonies.
Many independents belong to the
Farhauler’s Guild (p. TS98), but just as many
do not. Emotions often run high over the
Guild, and there is a lot of bitterness on both
sides. Non-Guild members complain of being
harassed if they refuse to join, and some
accuse the Guild of biochauvinism or racism.
The Guild sees unaffiliated freehaulers as a
threat to its ability to negotiate collectively
with the big companies and governments, and
some Guild members insist they would have
no problem with companies using bioroids or
AIs if they had the same rights and pay as
humans. Some Guild and non-Guild crews are
friendly rivals, but regular dockside brawls,
“accidents,” and the occasional armed confrontation are more typical of the conflict.

Modules: New basic bridge; medium
PESA; medium radar; 2 2.5-MJ light
laser towers [S]; 10 HI fusion pulse
drive; 50 tanks (ultralight, nuclear pellets); 4 luxury cabin; light storm shelter
(1-space: encloses bridge, cPF 100);
hall; large entry module; minifac workshop; 0.5 power pack; 2 cargo (10
tons).

Statistics: EMass 803; CMass 1,114;
LMass 1,414. Cost M$186.77. cHP
528. Size Modifier +4/+8. HT 12.
Maintenance Interval: 2.93 hours.
RRA 5.
Performance: sAccel: 0.04 G. Burn
Endurance: 125 hours. Burn Points:
18,000. Delta-V: 55 mps. No air speed.
Variant: The Chihuahuan is a “budget”
version of the Mojave. Change armor
to metal matrix composite. Remove
liquid-crystal skin and reduce luxury
cabins to normal. Structure is no longer
smart. Add an additional 4 cargo.
EMass 941; CMass 1,272; LMass
1,572. Cost M$77.48. sAccel: 0.03.
Burn Points: 13,500. Delta-V: 41.25
mps.

SUNLANCE EXECUTIVE
SPACE VEHICLE

The Vosper-Babbage Sunlance is one
of the fastest spacecraft in the system,
breaking several records since its introduction in 2095. Solar Express (p. TS96) is the
primary user of the design; images of their
10 yellow-and-purple vessels are featured
in virtually all of their advertising. SOLEX
permits each pilot to give an unofficial
name to his vessel, and allows a limited
amount of custom detailing for some longterm employees.
The Sunlance is a spartan design,
stripped down to the barest essentials. The
pilot’s compartment is an extremely
cramped cockpit with a crawlway leading
back to a fairly roomy cabin. The craft usually operates with a living crew, but it is
fully capable of unmanned operation. An
access hatch at the back of the cabin leads
to an even more cramped crawlway that

The Sunlance is one of
the fastest spacecraft
in the system.

stretches 50 feet to the engineering
section. There is no internal access to the
cargo bays, which are electronically sealed
and monitored during the trip.
The hull is a cylinder 100’ long and
averaging 25’ wide, tapered toward the
front (near the cockpit) to give it a streamlined appearance. The designers did their
best to give the craft a distinctive aesthetic
that makes it look fast even when docked,
although the unglamorous truth is that the
vessel is 70% fuel tanks. Typical payload is
85.3 tons – usually high-value cargo to justify the fuel expenses.
Crew: Pilot (Astrogation, Electronics
Operation (Communications), Electronics Operation (Sensors), Piloting
(Low-Performance Spacecraft)). Most
pilots are assisted and accompanied by
one or more infomorphs and cybershells that handle maintenance.
Design: Cylinder hull (100 spaces, diamondoid, light frame, smart); cDR/cPF
5/1F, 2/1S, 1/1B (diamondoid armor).
Hull radiators (5 ksf).
Modules: New cockpit; small PESA; small
fixed radar [F]; 10 HI fusion pulse
drive; 70 tanks (ultralight, nuclear pellets); cabin; small entry module; minifac workshop; 0.5 battery; 17 cargo (85
tons).
Statistics: EMass 108; CMass 613; LMass
1,033. Cost M$73.24. cHP 68. Size
Modifier +4/+8. HT 12. Maintenance
Interval: 4.67 hours. RRA 5.
Performance: sAccel: 0.07 G. Burn
Endurance: 175 hours. Burn Points:
44,100. Delta-V: 134.75 mps. No air
speed.
Variant: The Japanese Space Self Defense
Force converted one vessel into a
propulsion test bed for an antimatter
pulse drive. It is currently used by
JSSDF as a fast deep-space courier.
The Rei uses a HI antimatter pulse
drive in place of the fusion pulse drive,
and adds a 2-gram antimatter bay.
EMass 109; CMass 614; LMass 1,034.
Cost M$79.25. sAccel: 0.08 G. Burn
Endurance: 175 hours. Burn Points:
50,400. Delta-V: 154 mps.

INTERNAL FITTINGS AND SYSTEMS

Access crawlways allow the maintenance
of remote parts of the vessel. On most craft,
these spaces are only big enough for one person
at a time, and connect the habitation section to
the engineering area. Vessels largely maintained by cybershells have
smaller, unpressurized spaces,
while some designs – especially those with compact drives –
have tunnels just large enough
to admit microbots.
Bridge systems serve as
the nerve center of the vessel,
and as compact workspaces
that are easily shielded from
radiation. On-duty crews usually interact with each other and
the vessel via virtual-reality
simulations; these simulations
are often tailored to the tastes of
individual crewmembers, and
are sometimes idiosyncratic. A
modern bridge is a decidedly
spooky place to visit, with the
crew jacked in and silent much
of the time.
Bulkheads, are the main load-bearing
structures of the vessel, divide it into major airtight sections. Interior bulkheads have DR
equal to hull cDR × 10.
Computers are ubiquitous on a vessel. The
vessel’s systems management agent – a basic
NAI-4 or NAI-5 – controls all of the hundreds
of distributed systems, and helps manage the
bulk of the data that is sent to the vessel’s crew
or more powerful infomorphs. It is very limited
in how it can develop, in order to prevent potential viral infestation (see Fifth Wave).
Emergency panels are installed throughout
the vessel, notably in crew and passenger quarters, the bridge, and the engineering sections.
Each panel includes space for a battery (usually a D cell) for emergency power, at least two
air masks, a small medical kit, an optical
hookup to the vessel’s data network, and a
physical connection to the craft’s power
systems. Military vessels can lock out an

individual panel’s access to the network and
power – in extreme cases by severing its physical links to the rest of the vessel!
External markings are common, although
they are more a matter of taste than utility.
Smaller vessels, notably
those that operate close to
habitats and move at low
relative speeds, always
incorporate high-visibility
additions such as lights,
radio beacons, and custom
paint jobs. Larger vessels
keep individual markings
to a minimum unless they
have a liquid-crystal skin –
in which case they can be
programmed with all manner of logos or animations.
Military vessels, even those
with chameleon surfaces,
tend to remain matte black,
and have only a handful of
identification signs. In all
cases, integral IFF systems
provide the information that
local traffic-control networks use to manage
traffic.
Floors and walls are usually metal or composite grates secured by pins. These provide
convenient handgrips and attachment points, as
well as easy access to emergency systems and
engineering panels. Most spacers wear
footwear that can “lock” into the grates for
anchoring. Handguides and Velcro panels can
also be attached to the grates, at the convenience of the crew.
Handguides are small, motorized handgrips, or even pulleys, attached to tracks in the
walls. They are placed where distances or
obstacles are a handicap (such as down the long
axis of a vessel), and provide quick transportation without the danger of clumsily colliding
with walls or systems. Handguides normally
operate at Move 5, but can accelerate to Move
10 during emergencies.
Continued on next page . . .

INTERNAL FITTINGS AND SYSTEMS
(CONTINUED)

Hatches are pressure-tight doors set into
interior partitions and bulkheads. Most have
removable pins and emergency manual controls so that they do not become impassable in
the event of power failure. They have DR 25
and 50 hit points.
Hives are omnipresent aboard most vessels, with many craft having dozens. Mosthouse cleaning and repair cyberswarms that
control corrosion, destroy fungal growths, and
perform routine maintenance. Military vessels
will also have bughunter and sentry swarms.
The hives are free, but the swarms must be purchased separately; see pp. TS168-171.

UNUSUAL
DEEP-SPACE
VEHICLES

Some designs don’t fit into neat classifications. These spacecraft either have historical significance or are simply too
strange to categorize.

SHEPARD-CLASS
DEEP-SPACE
OPERATIONS VEHICLE

The Shepard-class DSOV’s heritage
stretches back to the earliest days of space
colonization, when America’s Horus I
became infamous due to the failed attempt
to land a manned mission on Mars. However, the Horus I design was fundamentally
sound, and was refined to produce the Shepard design, which went on to become highly successful in the mid-21st century. The
Shepard class is named for Alan B.

Interior partitions divide the ship into
smaller airtight sections. Partitions have DR 8
on civilian craft. Those on military vessels
incorporate extra ballistic and spall protection,
and have DR 15.
Safety displays are found in every compartment, and provide information on radiation
shielding, location of emergency systems, and
atmospheric status, as well as a communications link with the bridge. Displays on transnational company vessels show information in
English and Chinese, and are visible from any
orientation and in low-light conditions. Embedded v-tags broadcast the same information in
dozens of other languages.

Shepard, the first American in space. Vessels of this class originally bore the names
of astronauts from the Mercury, Gemini,
and Apollo programs.
Spacecraft of this class participated in
many landmark events, including the Martian Exodus to Silas Duncan Station, the first
manned voyage to Titan, and the Shezbeth
Expedition. Between the 2040s and 2070,
23 vessels were built for NASA, the USAF,
and the Titan Consortium. Numerous variants appeared as new technologies were
incorporated into the design. The earliest
models used nuclear light bulb or ion
drives. Some examples had more cabins
and less lab space. Starting in 2064, the
majority of Shepards were rebuilt by
Columbia Aerospace as long-range research
vessels, to support operations near Saturn
and in the outer system. This refit included
the installation of a modern high-impulse
fusion pulse drive, which drastically
improved performance.
Most of the Shepards were eventually
sold off, to various corporations, foundations, and governments, or were scrapped.
However, at least eight vessels remain
in service in 2100, almost all of which have
the fusion pulse drive upgrade. The
United States Astrographical Survey

operates four of these for exploration
in the Deep Beyond.
These vessels have small crews and
modest cargo capacities by 2100 standards,
but they are extremely reliable, and capable
of long voyages. One reason the Shepard is
so reliable is its amazing number of redundant systems and safety measures, many of
them added in reaction to the loss of the
Horus I. These features allow the craft to
survive damage that would otherwise be
catastrophic. For example, access to the
spin pod arms is restricted at both ends by
access modules (one on the main hull, one
on the pod), which helps to contain any
damage. In an emergency, both pods can be
jettisoned, with pod #1 functioning as a
lifeboat.
Shepard-class vessels are cylinders
300’ long and 50’ wide, with two 150’ long
arms holding 30’-long, 20’-wide spin cylinders. The spin apparatus can provide up to
0.5 G, although this tends to be somewhat
uncomfortable over long periods. Only two
of the four large entry modules in the main
hull allow external access; the other two
give internal access to the spin arms. Typical payload, including 500 tons of carried
craft, is 599.7 tons.
Crew: Commander/Pilot (Leadership,
Piloting (Low-Performance Spacecraft)); Navigator (Astrogation, Electronics Operation (Communications),
Electronics Operation (Sensors),
Gunner (Beams)); 5 Engineers
(Mechanic (Fusion Drive), Mechanic
(Robotics), other Mechanic skills as
appropriate)); Medic (Diagnosis,
Physician, Surgery); Cargo Master
(Administration, Freight Handling).
Design: [Hull] Cylinder hull (1,200 spaces,
foamed alloy, medium frame); cDR/
cPF 1/1F, 1/1S, 1/1B (titanium alloy
armor). [Pod #1 and #2] Cylinder hull
(19.2 spaces, foamed alloy, light
frame); cDR/cPF 1/1F, 1/1S, 1/1B (titanium alloy armor). Hull radiators (10
ksf).
Modules: [Hull] Old basic bridge; 2 large
PESA; 2 large radar; small ladar; 2.5MJ light laser tower [S]; 15 HI
fusion pulse drive; 1,010 tanks

(ultralight, nuclear pellets); 4 cabin; 4
large entry module; 2 minifac workshop; hall; heavy storm shelter (1space: encloses bridge, cPF 1,000); 5
battery; 14 old fission reactor (26
MW); 25 ksf solar cells (2 MW at 1
AU); 2 spacedock hangar (30’ long, 35’
wide, 20’ high: 42 spaces each); surgery; 15 cargo (75 tons). [Pod #1] 8
cabin; 2 lab; large entry module; 1 battery; 5 cargo (50 tons). [Pod #2] 4 lab;
small entry module; large entry module; 9 cargo (27 tons).
Statistics: EMass 3,618; CMass 10,278;
LMass 16,338. Cost M$240.46. cHP
[Hull] 780, [Pods] 19. Size Modifier
[Hull] +6/+10, [Pods] +3/+4. HT 12.
Maintenance Interval: 1.29 hours.
RRA 8.
Performance: sAccel: 0.006 G. Burn
Endurance: 1,683.33 hours. Burn
Points: 36,360. Delta-V: 111.1 mps. No
air speed.
Variant: The original Horus I was closely
related. Delete light laser, one large
PESA, and radar. Change shelter to
light (cPF 100). Remove batteries in
hull. Reduce fission plant to 10 spaces
(18 MW). Drive becomes a nuclear
light bulb and tanks are increased to
1,040 spaces. Of interest to historians is
that the accident that crippled the
Horus I is one that the design was
specifically designed to handle. Recreations of the event have left many puzzling questions unresolved, resulting in
occasional calls to salvage the hulk for
analysis. EMass 2,698; CMass 3,818;
LMass 4,338. Cost M$217.71. sAccel:
0.02 G. Burn Endurance: 11.56 hours.
Burn Points: 830. Delta-V: 2.543 mps.

NADEZHDA BIOSHIP

Named Nadezhda (Russian for “hope”)
by her designers, this vessel is actually alive
– an amazingly crafted organic machine
assembled from a multitude of specialized
bioroid components. Nadezhda is a cyborg
as opposed to a true biological organism,
with some systems consisting of electromechanical implants, albeit with many
biological elements.

BIOSHIPS

Fully biological spacecraft are not possible in
2100. Ships such as Nadezhda require extensive
technological assistance to survive. Treat bioships
in Transhuman Space as bioshells (p. TS73) with
the following template (-5 points):
Advantages: Acceleration Tolerance [10]; Bioroid
Body [0]; High Pain Threshold [10]; Injury
Tolerance (No Neck) [5]; Internal Senses* [20];
Sanitized Metabolism [5]; Vacuum Support
[40].
Disadvantages: Inconvenient Size (Large) [-10];
Lame (Legless) [-35]; No Manipulators [-50].
* The Internal Senses advantage lets the bioship see, hear, taste, and speak internally. Without
this advantage, the vessel is completely unaware of
activities inside it.
Nadezhda also has Radiation Tolerance 100
[28] (p. TS132), Increased Life Support 2 [-20], and
Short Lifespan 3 [-30].
Build a bioship hull as a nanocomposite structure with a ×1.5 price multiplier. This makes the
vessel biomechanical and gives it the template
above, as well as the ability to heal itself. Hull armor
cannot be biomechanical and does not regenerate.
Certain modules can also be made biomechanical, at double cost. These include tanks, all crew
quarters and seats, all accessories, and surface features. When determining Maintenance Interval (p.
TS189), do not include the cost of biomechanical
components in the calculation.
Bioships do not necessarily have to pay character points for their HT or cHP, or for technological devices built into them, such as radars,
communications gear, and armor plates. If the GM
requires it, ST is purchased with the No Fine Manipulators limitation (-40%).
Current bioships require immense quantities of
nutrients to function properly. If they are not fed,
starvation will result in the craft falling apart
(reduce HT by one per day of starvation). Food
requirement in man-days per day is equal to 6 ×
(cube root of EMass). Increased Life Support will
multiply this requirement.
For more information about living ships, see
pp. BIO106-110.

MacroTech Genetics and Manticore Genetics designed Nadezhda both
for publicity and to test radical new biomod technology that they hope will let
them break out into the expanding
space parahuman-design business. The
craft was mostly designed on Earth, but
the full-scale prototype was grown and
assembled in orbit under tight security.
It has only appeared outside of its testing area twice, and its creators have yet
to announce its completion publicly.
Even so, it has ignited a firestorm of
controversy among pan-sapient rights
organizations.
The vessel is a massive and
extremely complex bioshell composed
of many different nanofactured and
gengineered organisms working in concert. Its designers have refused to state
which of their researchers are behind
this seemingly impossible creation, but
many rival biotech companies are
engaged in a mad scramble to find out.
Nadezhda vaguely resembles a
giant orca in profile – an aesthetic
choice calculated to give the vessel a
strong visual impact. The hull appears
to be manufactured but is actually a
chitinous nanocomposite carapace. Airlocks and cargo doors are modified
sphincters, while sections of the hull
bend and flex dynamically in response
to structural stress. The inside of the
craft borders on the bizarre: fleshy
pockets hold computer terminals, while
the walls periodically ripple and change
color. Internal compartments are
formed from bone and cartilage, with
some nanocomposite bracing.
The crew monitors the bioship
from a specially constructed bridge
near the front, and can tap into its consciousness via slinky feed. The bioship
processes the crew’s waste; in turn, the
crew uses some of the bioship’s waste
products. Waste that cannot be recycled
is encapsulated and either ejected or
stored for later removal. (Rival biotech
companies may send agents to recover
these capsules to get some insight into
the vessel’s metabolism!).

Nadezhda is an amazing achievement,
but certain problems may preclude further
development. First, Nadezhda has an astronomical metabolic requirement, primarily
due to the need to generate a living environment for the crew. As well, some serious
difficulties with the custom bioroid subsystems have yet to be worked out, notably
cancerous growths in the living flesh
beneath the carapace. Despite these drawbacks, it may be years before other companies can match this accomplishment.
The vessel is built as a biomechanical
cylinder 75’ long and 35’ wide. The
onboard mass driver, a cybernetic implant,
has 100 spaces of rock dust to use as reaction mass, stored as cargo. The vessel’s
metabolic requirements are equivalent to
108 people; each space of food will feed it
for 115 days. Typical payload, not including
rock dust, is 41.1 tons, and includes 2
spaces of food.
Crew: Commander/Pilot (Leadership,
Piloting (Low-Performance Spacecraft)); Navigator (Astrogation, Electronics Operation (Communications),
Electronics Operation (Sensors));
Engineer (Mechanic (Mass Driver),
Mechanic (Robotics), other

Mechanic skills as appropriate); 4
Medical Technicians (Biochemistry,
Diagnosis, Physician, Surgery); Cargo
Master (Administration, Freight Handling). An infomorph directs the various bioroids on board and handles the
majority of maintenance tasks.
Design: Cylinder hull (1,267.2 spaces,
nanocomposite, extra-heavy frame,
smart, biomechanical); cDR/cPF
0.2/1F, 0.2/1S, 0.2/1B (nanocomposite
armor). Chameleon surface (biomechanical).
Modules: New basic bridge; large PESA;
medium radar; 10 mass driver engine
(rock dust); 4 cabin (biomechanical); 2
large entry module (biomechanical); 2
battery; 4 new fusion reactor (12 MW);
2 external cradles (125 tons each, biomechanical); surgery; 105 cargo (525
tons).
Statistics: EMass 222; CMass 1,563;
LMass 2,863. Cost: unknown (one-ofa-kind prototype). cHP 625. Size Modifier +5/+7. HT 12. Maintenance
Interval: 7.57 hours. RRA 0.
Performance: sAccel: 0.00064 G. Burn
Endurance: 500 hours. Burn Points:
1,150. Delta-V: 3.52 mps. No air speed.

It might not yet be the worldcrushing war machine of popular
science fiction, but the military
space vessel of 2100 is still a harbinger of destruction, bristling with
multi-megajoule lasers and carrying an arsenal of suicidal robotic
missiles.

EUROPEAN
SPACE CONTROL
AGENCY (ESCA)

Largely an outgrowth of the civilian
European Space Agency (ESA), ESCA has
evolved into an effective multinational
defense force. Despite being plagued by
differences between its constituent space
forces, it has managed to standardize the
tactics, equipment, and support infrastructure of its members, and to fund joint
research and development.
ESCA controls European Union space
assets. This includes the defense platforms
in Earth orbit that were once maintained by
the individual member nations. The main
focus of ESCA is indeed defense; however,
the major powers also maintain deep-space
forces that are capable of projecting power
across the solar system. These exist primarily to protect E.U.-dominated corporate
interests on Mercury and in the asteroids, and secondarily to provide a
flexible intervention capability for
operations such as police actions and
humanitarian relief efforts, often in
the chaotic L5 and Main Belt regions.
ESCA’s main wartime combat
experience was fending off stray missiles and orbital debris during the
Pacific War. However, its forces have
had plenty of involvement in “operations other than war” (see p. TS100)
in L5 and the Main Belt. ESCA has
also provided orbital support for E.U.
peacekeeping operations in Africa and
other trouble spots.

A FRACTURED FLEET

The strength of the ESCA deepspace fleet is estimated at approximately 36 SDVs and almost 50
support vessels, as well as a bewildering array of orbital facilities and
defense platforms. Control of these
assets is divided between independent

national space forces, with 75% of
them belonging to France, Germany, and
the United Kingdom. National governments, especially those of France and the
U.K., have opposed the full integration of
their fleets. As a result, ESCA’s authority
extends primarily to orbital defense, where
the brief time scales and the threat to the
entire European Union demand a unified
command structure.
The space forces have attracted many
nationalists who are disgruntled with the
perceived homogenization of their homelands by the European Union. These factions are especially prominent in the Royal
Navy Space Service and Force aérospatiale.
Officers and enlisted personnel within these
cliques have a Sense of Duty to their country; some even have Fanaticism. They promote like-minded officers (counting as a
Patron) and quietly influence defense policy to ensure the continued independence of
the space forces. In other space forces
(notably Germany and Poland), nationalist
factions enjoy less overt support; being a
nationalist there is a Secret that can lead to
serious embarrassment.

COMMON MILITARY
SPACECRAFT CLASSES

Light Space Dominance Vehicle (LSDV): A
smaller warcraft that sacrifices firepower or
armor for increased delta-v.
Microgravity Assault Vehicle (MAV): An
armored shuttle designed to convey boarding parties to enemy vessels – either by docking or by
ramming.
Space Control Vehicle (SCV): An assault carrier designed to support space-to-surface combat
missions.
Space Defense Platform (SDP): An orbital
battle station.
Space Dominance Vehicle (SDV): A heavily
armored warcraft.
Transatmospheric Combat Air Vehicle
(TCAV): An orbital or suborbital military spaceplane.

DOCTRINE,
ORGANIZATION, AND
DEPLOYMENT

The French, German, and United Kingdom space forces are the largest in ESCA,
and operate the majority of its deep-space
vessels. Despite the occasional nationalistic
officer, the individual forces that make up
ESCA exercise and plan together. Vessels
may operate in national or multinational
task forces, but operations with only one or
two deep-space vessels are typical. It is
common for an officer in one force to do a
tour of duty in another; thus, a French SDV
might have a British weapons officer serving aboard.

Bundesraumwaffe
Germany’s space force is modern: new
Hermann Oberth- and Gram-class vessels
make up over half its SDV fleet. In addition
to operating orbital assets, the Bundesraumwaffe is tasked with coordinating
E.U. operations in and around Luna and L4,
and has a high proportion of local space
vehicles for these purposes. As well, it routinely assists Force aérospatiale in operations in L5. Finally, it controls deep-space
assets, and shares responsibility for NearEarth Asteroid and Venus patrols with the
Royal Navy – sometimes venturing into the
Main Belt to assist the latter force in the
suppression of bioroid trafficking.
The Bundesraumwaffe often undertakes humanitarian missions; therefore, it
operates a Zhongguang HSTV that has been

converted into a mobile hospital. The
Bundesraumwaffe has a close relationship with Systems Technologies AG.

Force Aérospatiale
Like the USAF, France’s Force
aérospatiale is a joint air and space force.
Roughly half its budget is devoted to Earthbased combat and transport aircraft, including a sizable force of TCAVs. In space, it is
in charge of coordinating ESCA operations
in L5 and Mercury, and provides the majority of E.U. vessels for patrols and contingencies in these regions. Force aérospatiale
is fully capable of large-scale independent
operations where French interests or prestige are at stake, and its vessels often carry
Foreign Legion ground troops.
France has expended much financial
and political capital on its space force,
going so far as to break with its European
Union partners by refusing to participate
in the SDV-90 program in favor of its own
homegrown design. However, Force
aérospatiale maintains a close professional relationship with other ESCA members, and French space forces are
prominent in multinational ESCA exercises and deployments.

Royal Navy Space Service
and Royal Air Force
Royal Navy Space Service: The RNSS
is a component of an older military service,
the “wet” Royal Navy, and its personnel
must compete with their surface counterparts for promotion and funding. Unlike the
French and German space forces, it does
not operate any orbital weapons systems or

TCAVs. This has given the RNSS an
unusual focus on deep-space operations,
which has served it in good stead during
recent police actions in the Main Belt. The
RNSS works closely with the Royal Marine
Commandos (Commachio Group), the
U.K.’s elite “microgravity assault” unit.
Royal Air Force: The RAF operates the
U.K.’s share of ESCA’s orbital and groundbased space-defense systems, as well as
conventional (mostly unmanned) combat
aircraft and TCAVs, such as the Tempest.

Other Contingents
The French, German, and United Kingdom contingents dominate ESCA, but some
of the smaller European Union countries
also have a presence in space – even if that
means little more than contributing funding
or the occasional engineer or scientist. All
European Union nations contribute to
ESCA’s space-defense system. Multinational contingents of technicians man groundand space-based command-and-control
centers, service cybershell space-defense
platforms, and operate ground-based
defenses. A few nations have small, independent deep-space forces as well, notably
Italy, Poland, and Spain.

LSDV-5 (HERMANN
OBERTH CLASS)

Designed by System Technologies AG
and MedAir SpA, the LSDV-5 first flew in
2096, and is presently the cutting edge of
the European Union’s SDV fleet, representing the majority of new German, Italian,
French, and Spanish acquisitions. Unlike
Chinese and U.S. SDVs, it is optimized for
operation in the inner system – and in
Earth-Lunar space in particular. Vessels are
named after European aerospace pioneers
and industrialists; e.g., Gianni Caproni,
Marcel Dassault, Henri Farman, and Wernher von Braun.
The LSDV-5’s HT antimatter pulse
drive gives it exceptional acceleration, and
hence excellent maneuverability. Its antimatter bay contains a 66.7-hour supply of
antimatter – enough for more than four

full burns. The bay is buried deep
inside the hull, and can be ejected in an
emergency. In reality, this option does more
for the crew’s morale than it does to
improve safety, as an accident would result
in an explosion long before the bay could be
safely disconnected.
The LSDV-5 is a much smaller design
than the SDV-90, measuring a mere 160’
long and 45’ wide. The hull is sharply
sloped on the front to make maximum use
of its armor, with sensors and communications equipment placed in rounded blisters
along the hull. The living quarters and
bridge are located at the front of the ship,
followed by the tanks and the antimatter
pulse drive. The folding radiators are somewhat unusual, extending out from the hull
to measure 80’ wide, but gracefully curved
to 375’ in length. Typical combat payload is
538.2 tons, including 4 Predator AKVs on
external cradles and 10 munitions packages.
There are 1.72 spaces left for additional
modules and expansions.

OTHER ESCA NATIONS

Finland: The Suomen Ilmavoimat
(Finnish Air Force) operates a squadron of
Tempests (p. 30). A Finnish crew also maintains a single old SDV located in Earth
orbit, which is used for ESCA training.
Italy: The Italian Aerospace Force
operates one LSDV-5 (with two under construction) and several support craft, as well
as various TAVs and TACVs.
Poland: Has a mid-sized aerospace
force of TAVs plus two elderly SDVs. It is
considering the purchase of two new
LSDV-5’s to replace them.
Québec: A squadron of eight Tempest
TACVs are operated by la Force aérospatiale du Québec.
Turkey: Turkey has embarked on an
ambitious building program and intends to
field four SDVs by 2112. Currently they
operate two dozen TACVs and contribute
crews to various SDPs.

Crew: Commander (Leadership, Shiphandling, Tactics); Pilot (Piloting
(High-Performance Spacecraft)); Navigator (Astrogation, Electronics Operation (Communications), Electronics
Operation (Sensors)); 2 Weapons Officers (Gunner (Beams), Gunner (Railgun)); 20 Engineers (Mechanic
(Antimatter Drive), Mechanic (Robotics), other Mechanic as appropriate);
Medic (Diagnosis, Physician, Surgery).
As living quarters are sparse, most
of the crew is usually cybershells or
infomorphs.
Design: Streamlined cylinder (518.4
spaces, metal matrix composite, extraheavy frame, smart); cDR/cPF 70/10F,
10/2S, 5/1B (metal matrix composite
armor). Hull radiators (15 ksf), folding
radiator wings (60 ksf). Chameleon
surface.
Modules: New basic bridge; 2 medium
ladar; large PESA; 2 medium radar;
120 HT antimatter pulse drive; 300
tanks (ultralight, nuclear pellets); 0.08
antimatter bay (8 grams); 4 10-MJ
heavy laser towers [S]; 4 2.5-MJ light
lasers [S]; coilgun [F]; 2 cabin; heavy
storm shelter (1-space: encloses bridge,
cPF 1,000); 4 external cradles (125
tons each); minifac workshop; large
entry module; surgery; 5 cargo (25
tons).
Statistics: EMass 4,411; CMass 6,749;
LMass 8,549. Cost M$798.59. cHP
1,616. Size Modifier [Hull] +5/+9,
[Radiators] +9. HT 12. Maintenance
Interval: 1.42 hours. RRA 60.
Performance: sAccel: 0.17 G. Burn
Endurance: 15.63 hours. Burn Points:
9,570. Delta-V: 29.23 mps. No air
speed.
Variant: The manufacturers originally
hoped for foreign sales, but the high
cost of antimatter and the specialized
nature of the design discouraged most
buyers. In 2094, MedAir announced
the development of a less-expensive
export version, the LSDV-6 Soldati,
which replaced the HT antimatter pulse
drive with a more conventional HI
fusion pulse drive. The Japanese

Space Self Defense Force purchased
three LSDV-6s, while the Indian Aerospace Force acquired two, and has two
more on order. Remove the antimatter
bay and reduce side armor to cDR/cPF
5/1. EMass 3,833; CMass 6,121;
LMass 7,971. Cost M$572. sAccel:
0.08 G. Burn Endurance: 62.5 hours.
Burn Points: 18,000. Delta-V: 55 mps.

KÖNIGSBERG-CLASS
SPACE DOMINANCE
VEHICLE

This System Technologies design is
actually a “pre-SDV,” since the first members of the class were built in 2081, before
the influence of the new Chinese SDVs. It
is the best example of the sphere school of
warcraft design: a sphere lacks any specific
weak point in its armor and is somewhat
easier to maneuver. This is useful for shortrange engagements of the kind that ESCA
believes is most likely to occur in the congested L4 and L5 zones patrolled by the
German and French space forces. The
drawback is that the armor mass slows the
vessel down, despite the use of advanced
nanocomposites and an antimatter pulse
drive.
Vessels in this class are named
afterEuropean cities – mostly in France
and Germany, since those nations operate
the majority of these craft, although Italy
and Spain also use them. Multinational
ESCA crews operate two vessels, including the Königsberg itself. There is usually
a vessel of this class on patrol near Mercury to protect European antimatter production facilities.
The spacecraft is a 95’-diameter sphere
studded with laser towers. The crew quarters, bridge, and spacedock are located in
the front of the vessel, with the antimatter
bay buried deep inside the hull. When
deployed, the radiator wings are only 95’ ×
95’. The original design called for a much
larger antimatter drive and 215’ radiator
arrays, but structural limits forced a
redesign. Payload is 252.7 tons, including 200 tons of carried craft. The

power pack provides enough energy for two
volleys. The drive has 99 MW of excess
power if not used to power the weapons.
The antimatter bay holds enough antimatter
for 167 hours of operation, reducing the
need for frequent refueling.
Crew: Commander (Leadership, Shiphandling, Tactics); Pilot (Piloting (LowPerformance Spacecraft)); Navigator
(Astrogation, Electronics Operation
(Communications), Electronics Operation (Sensors)); 2 Weapons Officers
(Gunner (Beams), Gunner (Railgun));
20 Engineers (Mechanic (Antimatter
Drive), Mechanic (Robotics), other
Mechanic as appropriate); 2 Medics
(Diagnosis, Physician, Surgery). Often
carries 6 battlesuit-equipped soldiers.
Design: Sphere hull (857.375 spaces,
nanocomposite, extra-heavy frame,
smart); cDR/cPF 55/5 (nanocomposite
armor). Hull radiators (27 ksf), folding
radiator wings (18 ksf). Chameleon
surface.
Modules: New command bridge; 2 large
ladar; large PESA; 2 large radar; 90 HT
antimatter pulse drive; 600 tanks (ultralight, nuclear pellets); 0.15 antimatter
bay (15 grams); 8 10-MJ heavy

laser towers [S]; 12 2.5-MJ light laser
towers [S]; 8 cabin; bunkroom; heavy
storm shelter (2-space: encloses bridge,
cPF 1,000); minifac workshop; large
entry module; spacedock hangar (20’
long, 20’ wide, 25’ high: 20 spaces); 5
power pack; surgery; 10 cargo (50
tons).
Statistics: EMass 7,666; CMass 11,518;
LMass 15,118. Cost M$1,444.73. cHP
1,692. Size Modifier [Hull] +8, [Radiators] +8. HT 12. Maintenance Interval: 1.05 hours. RRA 45.
Performance: sAccel: 0.08 G. Burn
Endurance: 41.67 hours. Burn Points:
12,000. Delta-V: 36.67 mps. No air
speed.
Variant: France still favors the sphere concept, and pulled out of the SDV-90 project in favor of a modified Königsberg
design optimized for higher delta-v.
Vessels presently constructed include
the Cyrano de Bergerac (after which
the class is named) and Jules Verne.
Replace the HT antimatter pulse drive
with an HI antimatter pulse drive. Cost
M$1,354.73. Maintenance Interval:
1.09 hours. sAccel: 0.04 G. Burn
Endurance: 166.67 hours. Burn Points:
24,000. Delta-V: 73.3 mps.

EUROFIGHTER TEMPEST
TCAV

The Tempest is a multi-role unmanned
combat vehicle fielded by nearly all European Union aerospace forces. It was part of
the same long-term set of requirements formulated in 2081 that led to the SDV-90
(p. TS192). The program was plagued with
accusations of corruption, but the final production design by Vosper-Babbage is considered the best of the contenders.
Production began in 2087, with 87 vessels
currently in service (six have been lost in
training accidents and other mishaps).
The Tempest can travel at Mach 8.3,
skim the very edge of space, and safely
reenter atmosphere, but it is incapable of
entering orbit – which has led to grumbling
among the space forces that wanted a craft
capable of entering LEO and engaging targets in higher orbits. Constant upgrades to
the SAI infomorph packages continue to
extend the design’s operational life; ESCA
plans to field the Tempest until at least 2120.
Being unmanned, the Tempest is significantly smaller than the PLAN-SF Diaoche
(p. 36). It is a diamond-shaped delta

55’ long, 33’ wide, and 17’ high. Its lasers
are powered by an onboard power pack
(nine volleys), while most other systems
run off the battery (eight hours).
Crew: Unmanned. Infomorph uses Electronics Operation (Communications),
Electronics Operation (Sensors), Gunner (Beams), and Piloting (Aerospace).
Infomorph occupies the mainframe in
the unmanned controls.
Design: Streamlined delta (10.648 spaces,
carbon composite, heavy frame, smart,
responsive, lifting body); cDR/cPF
7/1F, 5/1S, 5/1B (carbon composite
armor). Liquid-crystal skin.
Modules: New unmanned controls; small
PESA; small fixed radar [F]; 2 compact
turbo-scramjet; 5 tanks (ultralight, jet
fuel); 2 2.5-MJ light lasers [F]; 0.2 battery; 1 power pack.
Statistics: EMass 138; CMass 165; LMass
192. Cost M$21.25. cHP 73. Size Modifier +6. HT 12. Maintenance Interval:
8.68 hours. RRA 0.
Performance: No space performance. Fuel
Endurance: 1.67 hours. Air Speed:
5,975 mph (1.66 mps). Stall Speed:
240 mph.

MAV-IIB PUMA
MICROGRAVITY
ASSAULT VEHICLE

The Vosper-Babbage Puma MAV is a
“boarding pod” designed for high-threat
attacks on orbital facilities, space colonies,
asteroid bases, and space vessels. A boarding action is dangerous; a target that
appears to have surrendered might still have
hidden weapons or self-destruct charges. As
such, after the majority of the target’s
weapons are disabled or suppressed, the
MAVs are launched from a safe distance
(typically 10-50 miles) at bone-crushing
accelerations, then rapidly decelerate,
allowing an assault force to perform the
boarding action without risking the mother
ship.
The basic design is a streamlined cylinder 25’ long and 10’ in diameter, with a
heavily armored “nosecap” (which can
punch through light armor, if the MAV rams
its target), followed by a troop compartment, and then fuel tanks and rocket nozzles. There are 40 Pumas in ESCA service.
Individual craft do not have official names,
but their passengers usually take the time to
give them a nickname and paint various slogans on the nose.
Crew: Pilot (Piloting (High-Performance
Spacecraft)). In many cases, the craft is
entirely automated, running an LAI
infomorph on the cockpit mainframe.
Can carry up to 16 battlesuited or
cybershell marines.
Design: Streamlined cylinder (4 spaces,
metal matrix composite, extra-heavy
frame); cDR/cPF 14/2F, 5/1S, 2/1B
(metal matrix composite armor).
Modules: Old cockpit; small PESA; small
fixed ladar [F]; 1 compact keroseneoxygen rocket; 1 tanks (ultralight,
kerosene-oxygen); passenger seats;
small entry module.
Statistics: EMass 42; CMass 51; LMass
58. Cost M$9.03. cHP 60. Size Modifier +2/+4. HT 12. Maintenance Interval:
6.66 hours. RRA 0.

Performance: sAccel: 9.75 G. Burn
Endurance: 0.003 hours (11 seconds).
Burn Points: 110. Delta-V: 0.322 mps.
No air speed.

AVSKÈRMAR SPACE
DEFENSE PLATFORM

Designed by Hvide Stjerne A/S in Denmark, the Avskèrmar (“shield”) SDP has
been the standard European Union space
defense platform design since 2070. It is
used mainly in the inner system (especially
Earth, Luna, and Mercury orbit) due to its
reliance on solar power.
The hull is a simple 25’-diameter
sphere with two 71’ × 71’ folding solar panels. Its power pack provides enough power
for 5 shots, and the battery powers all other
systems for 8.8 hours. The platform remains
in low-power mode (allowing the solar
cells to recharge the batteries and
power pack) until alerted or
attacked.

Crew: Unmanned. Infomorph uses
Electronics Operation (Communications), Electronics Operation (Sensors), and Gunner (Beam).
Infomorph occupies the mainframe in
the unmanned controls. Maintenance is
performed by cyberswarms.
Design: Sphere hull (15.625 spaces, titanium alloy, heavy frame, smart);
cDR/cPF 25/5 (metal matrix composite
armor). Chameleon surface.
Modules: Old unmanned controls; small
fixed radar [F]; small PESA; 0.25 compact metal-oxygen rocket; 7 tanks
(metal-oxygen); 10-MJ heavy laser
[F]; 0.1 battery; 1.2 power pack; 10 ksf
folding solar panels.
Statistics: EMass 319; CMass 392; LMass
466. Cost M$32.59. cHP: 59. Size
Modifier +4. HT 12, Maintenance
Interval: 7.01 hours.
Performance: sAccel: 0.15 G, Burn
Endurance: 0.187 hours (11.2 minutes), Burn Points: 10, Delta-V: 0.31
mps. No air speed.

PEOPLES’
LIBERATION
ARMY NAVY
SPACE FORCE
(PLAN-SF)

space. The TSA’s use of pre-positioned AKVs to attack interplanetary and
translunar shipping came close to cutting
off Mars, as well as interdicting helium-3
energy supplies that were supposed to
arrive from Luna. The U.S. energy embargo
on gas-giant helium-3 caused further shortages.
After the conflict, China resolved to
repair its weaknesses in deep space,
embarking on an extensive modernization
program. Lessons learned in the Pacific War
were applied to the ongoing Gang Shou
SCV and the Xingzhai SDV programs,
resulting in the first of a new breed of deepspace combatants. During this time, the
PLAN-SF developed many of the tactical
doctrines and technologies now taken for
granted by other space forces.

From its humble beginnings as an arm
of the PLA Navy to its baptism of fire during the Pacific War, China’s PLAN-SF has
continually adapted to shifting strategic and
political requirements. Now, almost two
decades after the Pacific
War, the largest military
space fleet is undertaking a
bold plan to completely
ANKS
reinvent itself, shaking the
The
PLAN-SF
rank
structure
is identical to that of the
delicate balance of power
PLA
Navy.
It
is
common
practice
for
both officers and enlistamong the major space
taiko
(“space”)
to their rank in order to
ed
personnel
to
attach
forces.
differentiate themselves from their surface counterparts.
Enlisted personnel (Rank 0-2) are common on Chinese
OCTRINE
vessels, in marked contrast to the USAF and ESCA, where
most such positions are filled by infomorphs. However, offiPrior to the Pacific
cers fill all bridge positions. At least Rank 6 is needed to comWar, PLAN-SF strategy
mand a large military vessel, but Rank 3-5 officers often
was to maintain complete
command smaller craft. A Rank 2 NCO typically commands
control of various “stratenoncombat craft. China does not use sapient infomorphs in its
gic nexuses” around Mars
military vessels (including its AKVs), preferring to use NAIs
and Earth. War plans conand LAIs.
centrated on fixed defensPolitical reliability is still important to promotion, which
es, heavily armed satellites,
leads
to a distressing number of mediocre leaders. Special
and agile, short-range
“cadre”
infomorphs monitor all officers (Rank 3+) in order to
orbital combatants, such as
ensure
that
they are performing their duties efficiently. These
AKVs. Only a few deepinfomorphs
answer only to the Central Military Commission
space vessels were in serv(China’s
central
military command) and its General Political
ice – the emphasis was on
Division
(GPD);
as such, officers do not trust them. Howevorbital battle.
the
infomorphs
do not actively work against those they
er,
In the Pacific War, the
monitor;
rather,
they
exist to testify as to an officer’s political
PLAN-SF proved successloyalty
and
professional
conduct, should these things come
ful in sweeping the TSA
into
question.
out of Earth’s skies and
A cadre infomorph is an LAI-7 with Fanaticism (Loyalthen supporting ground
ty
to
China) [-15] loaded onto a wearable or implanted virtuoperations with orbital
al
interface
(p. TS142) assigned to the officer.
strikes. However, things
did not go so well in deep

R

D

BASES

PLAN-SF facilities are heavily defended,
with dozens of AKV bays and beam-weapon
emplacements, as well as various automated
defense platforms and cybershells. Friendly
vessels are expected to maneuver within this
defensive network and support weak points as
necessary.
Phobos (Mars): Headquarters to the Deep
Space Fleet, and perhaps the single most heavily defended facility outside of Earth-Luna
space. Rumors abound that the PLAN-SF may
relocate its headquarters to Phobos in the next
decade.
Shi Yusheng Station (Earth-Luna): This
military habitat is the primary orbital training
facility for the PLAN-SF. The station itself is an
unremarkable torus design, and only lightly
armed. Roughly 2,000 permanent personnel
and trainees are stationed at the facility.

DEPLOYMENT

The PLAN-SF invented the modern
concept of space dominance vehicles, and
has the largest inventory of any single space
power – more than 30 – as well as dozens of
smaller craft. Some 90% of these vessels
are in Earth-Luna and Mars space, and
operate in three “named” fleets: the Deep
Space Fleet, the Earth Fleet, and the
Reserve Fleet. Organization is copied from
the PLA Navy, with some changes to reflect
PLAN-SF’s much smaller size.
Each fleet is divided into dadui
(“groups”) of up to five vessels, roughly
equivalent to USAF or ESCA squadrons.
These detach jiangting (“individual

Jiuquan Launch Facility (Earth): Half of
this aerospace complex serves as the PLAN-SF
boot camp, technical training facility, and command center for the Earth Fleet.
Beijing Aerospace Command and Control
Center (Earth): Technically controlled by the
Chinese civilian space agency, the China
National Space Administration (CNSA), this
facility houses a large PLAN-SF detachment
responsible for tracking and identifying potentially hostile targets in orbit.
Jiangli Station (Saturn): The PLAN-SF
maintains a small detachment at the station,
ostensibly to advise on defensive matters and
liaison with Deep Space Fleet vessels. Growing
tensions over U.S. reconnaissance missions
may lead to increased PLAN-SF involvement.

vessels”) for patrols and other routine tasks.
During the Pacific War, the Earth Fleet
became large enough to form zhidua
(“flotillas”) of up to 30 vessels.
The PLAN-SF does not have its own
infantry force. Instead, it “borrows” elements of the PLAN Haijun Luzhandui
(“Marine Corps”). The haijun kongjianzhandui (“space marine”) units are a special
branch, drawn from the elite 67th Space
Infantry Division (SID). The Division’s
three brigades (1,500 troops) are well
trained and motivated; service in the unit is
considered an honor, and reflects well on
one’s family. Training focuses on hands-on
exercises rather than relying on slinky or
InVid simulations.

RIGUANG-CLASS
LIGHT SPACE
DOMINANCE VEHICLE

Designed by MAST in 2096 and set to
enter mass production by Hsaio Ch’u at the
Phobos shipyards, the Riguang (“Sun”)class LSDV is the most advanced military
vessel in PLAN-SF service, and the first
Chinese warcraft to use an antimatter pulse
drive. Originally designed simply as an
adjunct to the expensive Gang Shou-class
SCVs (see In The Well), it has proven to be
an outstanding design – perhaps even a successor to the Xingzhai class (pp. 35-36) if
the problems with powering all of its
weapons in combat can be resolved. The
first examples of the class, the Riguang
Qiang (“Sun Spear”) and Riguang Dao
(“Sun Sword”) are currently conducting a
shakedown cruise between Mars and Earth.
Full production is expected to start in early
2101 to fill out the requirement for 10 vessels by 2108.
The 200’-long, 50’-wide cylinder is
noticeably sleeker than earlier PLAN-SF

designs – Hsaio Ch’u took great care
to make the vessel aesthetically pleasing
as well as combat effective. The design was
the first to make extensive use of feng shui
advisors, making the interior unique. The
bridge has a large fish tank, and access hallways are carefully placed to facilitate the
flow of chi through the vessel. The radiators
are small (89’ × 89’), but have patterns
embossed on the surface to give them the
appearance of giant butterfly wings. Typical
payload is 364 tons, including 5 extra munitions packs and 300 tons of carried craft.
Crew: Commander (Leadership, Shiphandling, Tactics); Pilot (Piloting (LowPerformance Spacecraft)); Navigator
(Astrogation, Electronics Operation
(Communications), Electronics Operation (Sensors)); 2 Weapons Officers
(Gunner (Beams), Gunner (Railgun));
20 Engineers (Mechanic (Antimatter
Drive), Mechanic (Robotics), other
Mechanic as appropriate); Medic
(Diagnosis, Physician, Surgery). Usually, all but the bridge crew and medic
are cybershells.

Design: Cylinder hull (800 spaces,
nanocomposite, extra-heavy frame,
smart); cDR/cPF 65/5F, 10/1S, 5/1B
(nanocomposite armor). Hull radiators
(32 ksf), folding radiator wings (16
ksf). Chameleon surface.
Modules: New basic bridge; 2 fixed medium ladar [F/S]; large PESA; large
radar; 95 HI antimatter pulse drive; 555
tanks (ultralight, nuclear pellets); 0.14
antimatter bunker (14 grams); 6 10-MJ
heavy lasers [S]; 3 10-MJ heavy lasers
[F]; 8 2.5-MJ light laser towers [S];
coilgun [F]; 150’ new particle beam
[F]; 6 cabin; heavy storm shelter (1space: encloses bridge, cPF 1,000);
minifac workshop; 2 small entry module; spacedock hangar (40’ long, 20’
wide, 25’ high: 40 spaces); surgery; 5
cargo (25 tons).
Statistics: EMass 3,873; CMass 7,767;
LMass 10,897. Cost M$703.72. cHP
2,160. Size Modifier [Hull] +6/+9,
[Radiators] +7. HT 12. Maintenance
Interval: 1.51 hours. RRA 47.
Performance: sAccel: 0.06 G. Burn
Endurance: 146.05 hours. Burn Points:
31,550. Delta-V: 96.39 mps. No air
speed.

XINGZHAI-CLASS SPACE
DOMINANCE VEHICLE

The Xingzhai (“Star”)-class SDV
makes up the bulk of the PLAN Deep Space
Fleet, although some earlier pre-SDVs
remain in service. Twenty vessels have been
constructed. It is one of the earliest “second-generation” SDV designs, but it has
proven very reliable, and is expected to
remain in front-line service until at least
2120.
The Xingzhai program started in 2073,
and included the concept – at the time
unheard-of in a dedicated deep-space
design – of abandoning spin capsules in
favor of microgravity-adapted crews.
There were several changes in the wake of
the Pacific War, including a higher-impulse
drive and modified armament. The prototype, Jiuxing Hao (“Eternal Star”), was

completed in 2086, and production
begun in 2088.
The Xingzhai class has undergone a
number of upgrades over its history, intended to keep it competitive against newer craft
such as the SDV-90 and DFS-3. Its basic
design is now standard for SDVs: a 350’long, 60’-wide cylinder with 141’ × 141’
folding radiator wings. In addition to the six
Zhenyang AKVs in launch bays, the spacedock usually carries an additional 500 tons
of AKVs or support equipment for the
marine detachment. Typical payload is
1,456 tons. There are 6.1 spaces available
for expansion.
Crew: Commander (Leadership, Shiphandling, Tactics); Pilot (Piloting (LowPerformance Spacecraft)); Navigator
(Astrogation, Electronics Operation
(Communications), Electronics Operation (Sensors)); 2 Weapons Officers
(Gunner (Beams)); 20 Engineers
(Mechanic (Fusion Drive), Mechanic
(Robotics), other Mechanic as appropriate); 3 Medics (Diagnosis, Physician, Surgery). Most vessels carry 24
battlesuit-equipped marines.
Design: Cylinder hull (2,016 spaces, carbon composite, extra-heavy frame,
smart); cDR/cPF 65/20F, 15/2S, 5/1B
(metal matrix composite armor). Hull
radiators (70 ksf), folding radiator
wings (40 ksf). Chameleon surface.
Modules: Old command bridge; 3 medium
ladar; 2 large PESA; 2 medium radar;
200 HI fusion pulse drive; 1,500 tanks
(ultralight, nuclear pellets); 6 10-MJ
heavy laser towers [S]; 4 10-MJ heavy
lasers [F]; 8 2.5-MJ light lasers [S]; 2
2.5-MJ light lasers [B]; 300’ old particle beam [F]*; 4 cabin; 6 bunkroom;
passenger seats; heavy storm shelter
(2-space: encloses bridge, cPF 1,000);
light storm shelter (1-space: encloses
passenger seats, cPF 100); minifac
workshop; 2 large entry module; spacedock hangar (55’ long, 20’ wide, 25’
high: 55 spaces); 20.5 new fission reactor (80 MW); 6 vehicle bays
(Zhenyang AKV: 150 tons, 0.08 ksf, 6
spaces each); surgery; 10 cargo (50
tons).

Statistics: EMass 11,768; CMass
22,224; LMass 31,224. Cost
M$927.39. cHP 4,378. Size Modifier
[Hull] +6/+10, [Radiators] +9. HT 12.
Maintenance Interval: 1.32 hours.
RRA 105.
Performance: sAccel: 0.04 G. Burn
Endurance: 187.5 hours. Burn Points:
27,000. Delta-V: 82.5 mps. No air
speed.
* If the particle beam is powered, the
vessel may not fire 6 heavy lasers that turn.

DIAOCHE-CLASS TCAV

The Diaoche (“Crane”)-class TCAV
entered production in 2090 after a heated
design competition that lasted only a single
year. The Diaoche is in service with the
PLAN-SF and PLA Air Force, but to date,
no version has been offered for export. Only
45 of these craft are in PLAN-SF service;
the much smaller Ying (“Hawk”) TCAV
(see In The Well) has proved adequate for
most missions. However, the Air Force possesses 240 of these craft, with squadrons
located throughout China.
The Diaoche does not require external
boosters to enter orbit, unlike earlier TCAV
designs. Instead, it uses advanced turboscramjets for atmospheric travel and highthrust chemical rockets for high-altitude
maneuvering. It is not designed for prolonged engagements, and is vulnerable to
conventional aerospace assets, but it can
engage LEO targets from within the atmosphere, deploy small satellite systems or
cyberswarm networks, and possibly engage
enemy vessels in higher orbits with its laser.
Unfortunately, the craft’s combat endurance
is limited: the power pack only provides
enough energy for 6 full-power shots from
the dorsal laser array, and rocket fuel
endurance is measured in minutes at full
burn.
At 70’ in length, this is the largest
TCAV in service. In fact, the main reason
the Gang Shou has such a large spacedock
is because of the requirement to carry at
least one full flight of these craft. Typical
payload is 15.1 tons – usually additional
ASAT weapons or microsatellites.

Crew: Pilot (Electronics Operation
(Communications), Electronics Operation (Sensors), Gunner (Beams),
Piloting (Aerospace), Piloting (HighPerformance Spacecraft)).
Design: Streamlined delta (21.952 spaces,
carbon composite, light frame, responsive, lifting body); cDR/cPF 7/1F,
5/1S, 5/1B (metal matrix composite
armor).
Modules: Old cockpit; small PESA; small
fixed radar [F]; 2 compact turboscramjet; 0.25 compact kerosene-oxygen rocket; 7 tanks (ultralight, jet fuel);
3.5 tanks (ultralight, kerosene-oxygen);
10-MJ heavy laser [F]; 0.1 battery; 1.5
power pack; 3 cargo (15 tons).
Statistics: EMass 160; CMass 237; LMass
300. Cost M$21.98. cHP 29. Size Modifier +7. HT 12. Maintenance Interval:
4.27 hours. RRA 0.
Performance: sAccel: 0.52 G. Burn
Endurance: 0.043 hours (2.58 minutes). Burn Points: 80. Delta-V: 0.246
mps. Fuel Endurance: 2.33 hours. Air
Speed: 4,695 mph (1.30 mps). Stall
Speed: 235 mph.

UNITED
STATES

throughout the system. Rather than
defend fixed locations, the USAF
expects to move rapidly onto offensive
operations during any conflict, using its
qualitative edge in mobility and technology
to form ad hoc combat units wherever they
are needed most.

AEROSPACE
FORCE (USAF) DEPLOYMENT

After a successful campaign to protect
U.S. space assets from stray Chinese and
TSA weapons during the Pacific War, and
operations against Gypsy Angel pirates
afterwards, the USAF is riding high on its
stored political capital and public support.
This has enabled it to grab the lion’s share
of the national defense funding, much to the
chagrin of the other services.

DOCTRINE

Compared to ESCA, the PLAN-SF, or
the TSA, the United States Aerospace Force
is spread very thin, with assets scattered

RANKS

Habitat and vessel crews are organized much
like miniature squadrons. The Commanding Officer
(Rank 6) and Executive Officer (Rank 5) are in
overall command, with captains (Rank 4) in charge
of the lieutenants (Rank 3) that man most of the vessels’ systems. Enlisted personnel are largely technical specialists in the Aerospace Command, and are
practically nonexistent on space vessels and facilities.
USAF officers often joke that in Deep Space
Command, “a captain is a corporal and a colonel is
a sergeant.” Rank divisions are very strict on space
vessels, as the human crew consists entirely of officers (infomorphs may be NCOs). Promotion can be
painfully slow, which can be a shock for officers
from other services or from Aerospace Command.
To represent this, USAF officers may spend up to 3
character points to establish time-in-grade and timein-service. This seniority only counts for the current
Military Rank, but GMs may allow the player to
simply buy off the difference when purchasing a
higher Military Rank.

The USAF attempts to keep at least
half of its vessels out on patrol at all times.
Some vessels are sent on unannounced
“tours” to other Space Wings or out-of-theway colonies, as fuel budgets permit. Most
of these missions are intended to disrupt
any long-term analysis of fleet dispositions,
but they do broaden the perceived presence
of the United States in space and provide
crews with useful experience.
The USAF cooperates very closely
with the U.S. Army’s 82nd Spaceborne, but
its relationship with the rest of the Army,
and with the Navy, is cooler. The Army
resents the USAF emphasis on spacecontrol and deep-strike operations over airlift and close air support, while the
Navy (and its congressional lobby)
still bears a grudge over having been
denied a chance to operate deepspace vessels.

DEEP SPACE WINGS

The “wing” is the largest combat unit in
the USAF. A Space Wing can consist of up to 20
large vessels and a dozen or more auxiliaries
(cargo transports, large shuttles, executive
space vehicles, etc.). Wings generally consist of
three to five squadrons. Each squadron has a
few large vessels or stations (in Deep Space
Wings, typically two SDVs) and several smaller ones, plus supporting personnel.
30th Space Wing: Based out of Rhea
(p. TS47), the 30th is responsible for defending
U.S. interests in the Deep Beyond, including
ensuring the safety of helium-3 shipments; protecting U.S. bases and colonies at Cassini Station, Rhea, Titan, and Hyperion; and assisting
vessels in distress. Four Block C Archangel
SDVs and various other vessels patrol the
region around Saturn and make occasional sorties as far out as Neptune. See Deep Beyond for
additional information.
90th Space Wing: This wing’s area of
responsibility is deep-space patrol in the inner
system, in particular to protect U.S. deep-space
commerce in the “triangle trade” between
Earth-Lunar space, Mercury, and Mars. In
peacetime, this often involves rendering aid to
vessels or near-Earth asteroid bases. It is also
tasked to assist the 91st in the defense of Mercury, and its inner-system patrols near the sun
often double as science missions for the U.S.
Astrographical Survey. The 90th fields six
Angel SDVs, one Grizzly SCV, and eight auxiliary vessels.

91st Space Wing: Assigned to defend Mars
and patrol the inner system, the 91st Space
Wing has the distinction of the worst safety
record of all the Deep Space Wings, despite
numerous maintenance standdowns. Both the
USAF and SIA are investigating potential Chinese or terrorist sabotage. The wing consists of
six Angel SDVs, three Grizzly SCVs, and
almost two dozen auxiliaries. As a heavily
transport-oriented wing, it is expected to support contingencies that require interplanetary
troop deployments (including reinforcing Mercury and Titan). For more information, see In
The Well.
341st Space Wing: The 341st Space Wing
is based out of Columbia Station in Earth orbit.
In peacetime, it supports the orbital SDP network in close cooperation with the 21st Space
Wing (Aerospace Command), and is also
tasked with handling contingencies at Luna,
L4, and L5. The 341st currently fields two
Angel SDVs, with another two undergoing refit
to the Block C upgrade, plus a large number of
local space vessels (OTVs, MAVs, etc).
50th Space Wing: Not officially acknowledged to exist, the 50th Space Wing is sometimes credited with testing (and perhaps
operating) a variety of experimental or prototype vessels, or special operations craft (such as
modified civilian vessels used for electronic
surveillance or black operations). Conspiracy
theorists claim they use technology salvaged
from alien relics on Mars and Pluto.

DCS-4 GRIZZLY
SPACE CONTROL
VEHICLE

BASES

For reasons known only to the USAF command,
all facilities located on planetoids or planets are “Air
Force Bases,” while those in orbit are “Aerospace
Force Bases.” Both on Earth and elsewhere, local
contractors largely operate the facilities. This makes
the bases more cosmopolitan, but it is also a potential
security hazard. Counterintelligence is a rapidly
expanding occupational field in the USAF . . .
Some examples:
Cassini AFB (Rhea): The HQ of the 30th Space
Wing. The posting is relatively boring, but increased
tension with the Chinese colony on Titan has many
worried.
Titan AFB (Saturn): A large spaceport serving
mainly as a staging area for military landings on
Titan. Only a single squadron of UCAVs and a handful of support personnel are present to “show the
flag.” The Joint Chiefs are considering expanding the
base to support a permanent Army detachment
despite objections by some USAF generals.
Mars Orbit AFB (Mars): Commanded by the
colorful Brigadier General Gendo Tobikuma, “Blue
Star” is the HQ of the 91st Space Wing. The facility
is earmarked for expansion, to the relief of the overcrowded and overworked crew.
Vandenburg AFB (Earth): Shared with NASA,
Vandenburg AFB is the site of the world’s largest concentration of TCAVs, with 74 in various states of
readiness. As operations at Vandenburg expand under
Lieutenant General Gloria Silvas’ command, the base
has become a popular target for groups opposing the
weaponization of space and atmospheric damage
from TCAV and shuttle launches.

Designed as the fast transport
and AKV carrier counterpart to
the DFS-3, the Columbia Aerospace DCS-4 can carry an entire
battalion of Army personnel and
their associated support equipment, or enough AKVs to seriously threaten a fleet. It represents a
major increase in the USAF’s
ability to project force across the
solar system. It was approved in
2088, with the first vessel completed in 2090.
Fifteen vessels were planned,
but only seven are currently in
active service, with the pathfinder
vessel being used alternately for
training and for testing new technologies for later installation on
production models. Vessels in
service are named after bears,
including those from myth; e.g.,
the Kodiak, Sunbear, and Ghost
Bear of the 91st Space Wing.
The DCS-4 is a 450’-long,
50’-wide cylinder. Not designed
to go toe-to-toe with other combat
vessels, it cannot retract its 224’ ×
224’ radiator wings and carries
relatively little armor. Typical
payload includes 8 Predator
AKVs on external cradles, and
various other craft in the spacedock, for a total of 3,407.6 tons.
There are 56 spaces available for future
upgrades.

Crew: Commander (Leadership, Shiphandling, Tactics); Pilot (Piloting (LowPerformance Spacecraft)); Navigator
(Astrogation, Electronics Operation
(Communications), Electronics Operation (Sensors)); Weapons Officer
(Gunner (Beams), Gunner (Railgun));
35 Engineers (Mechanic (Fusion
Drive), Mechanic (Robotics), other
Mechanic skills as appropriate); 8

Medics
(Diagnosis,
Physician,
Surgery). The DCS-4 can carry 200
battlesuited infantry in its bunkrooms,
or over 1,000 cybershell troops in
cargo. Most of the spacedock is usually given over to UCAVs and drop
capsules.
Design: Cylinder hull (1,800 spaces, metalmatrix composite, heavy frame, smart);
cDR/cPF 25/2F, 8/1S, 5/1B (diamondoid armor). Hull radiators (55 ksf),
radiator wings (100 ksf). Chameleon
surface.

USTRANSCOM

initiated in response to the discovery of China’s Xingzhai SDV
by U.S. intelligence. The final
design is considered typical of
The United States Transportation Command, based
most advanced SDVs: a 375’out of Scott AFB on Earth, is responsible for all translong, 50’-wide streamlined
portation and logistics for the U.S. military – from concylinder bristling with AKV bays
tracting mag-lev transport of Army tanks around the
and laser towers. The first three
United States to moving Navy assets on chartered space
production vessels saw combat
transports to Titan and Mars. In an era where national
almost immediately after their
holdings can be on other planets, the role of transportaconstruction – notably in the
tion in logistics is absolutely critical.
post-war “Snark Hunt” against
Currently, most U.S. military transport in space is
rogue AKVs. Today, these powhandled by contracted shipping companies, a fact that
erful vessels are the embodiment
has many U.S. policy makers worried, as it places a lot
of American military power, and
of power in the hands of the independent Farhauler’s
are often featured in USAF
Guild and the large shipping cartels. The USAF has
recruitment ads.
scoffed at such fears, and points to the successful transThe DFS-3 is heavily
portation of Navy assets to Mars as proof it can be done
armed, but vessels on patrol are
without expanding USTRANSCOM control of their
also expected to gather signals
vessels.
intelligence (SIGINT), and the
most distinctive feature of the
vessel is the advanced passive
Modules: New command bridge; 2 large
sensor array from Nanodynamics. Mission
ladar; 2 large PESA; 2 large radar; 300
specialists from the SIA and NTIB are often
HI fusion pulse drive; 1,000 tanks
attached to DFS-3 crews, and travel routes
(ultralight, nuclear pellets); 4 10-MJ
are arranged to fill reconnaissance requireheavy laser towers [S]; 6 2.5-MJ light
ments that cannot be conducted by sensor
laser towers [S]; 10 cabin; 50
networks or drones.
bunkroom; heavy storm shelter (2There are now 20 DFS-3s in USAF
space: encloses bridge, cPF 1,000);
service, with another five under construcminifac workshop; 2 large entry modtion. All current vessels are of the Block B
ule; spacedock hangar (120’ long, 40’
design (instituted in 2093) with the excepwide, 20’ high: 192 spaces); 8 external
tion of four Block C Archangel upgrades
cradles (125 tons each); 3 surgery; 100
(see Deep Beyond). Current DFS-3s are
cargo (500 tons).
named after minor angels from the Bible,
Statistics: EMass 5,822; CMass 15,230;
Koran, and Kabbalah; e.g., the 91st Space
LMass 21,230. Cost M$1,766.32. cHP
Wing’s Dina, Gaghiel, Qamiel, Ramona,
2,280. Size Modifier [Hull] +6/+10,
Tabris, and Zafrire.
[Radiators] +10. HT 12. Maintenance
Typical payload is 1,067 tons, includInterval: 0.95 hours. RRA 150.
ing 4 AKVs in bays, 500 tons of carried
Performance: sAccel: 0.08 G. Burn
craft, and 10 munitions packages. The radiEndurance: 83.33 hours. Burn Points:
ator wings are 187’ × 187’ when fully
24,000. Delta-V: 73.33 mps. No air
extended. The DFS-3 is incapable of powspeed.
ering all of its weapons systems using the
drive’s MHD system alone. For this reason,
a power pack is installed to provide power
NGEL PACE
for two volleys; the vessel is then limited to
firing either the lasers or the particle beams
OMINANCE EHICLE
in any given turn. The drive produces 199
The Columbia Aerospace YDFS-3 was
MW of excess power when the weapons are
the winner of the USAF’s Large Deep
not being used.
Space Combatant Program, which was

DFS-3 A
S
D
V

Crew: Commander (Leadership,
Shiphandling, Tactics); Pilot (Piloting (Low-Performance Spacecraft));
Navigator (Astrogation, Electronics
Operation (Communications), Electronics Operation (Sensors)); 2
Weapons Officers (Gunner (Beams),
Gunner (Railgun)); 24 Engineers
(Mechanic (Fusion Drive), Mechanic
(Robotics), other Mechanic skills as
appropriate); 2 Medics (Diagnosis,
Physician, Surgery); Mission Specialist (Electronics Operation (Sensors),
Intelligence Analysis, SIGINT Collection/Jamming, Traffic Analysis). The
DFS-3 has enough room to carry up to
20 infantry and associated equipment.
Design: Streamlined cylinder (1,500
spaces, metal-matrix composite, extraheavy frame, smart); cDR/cPF 98/10F,
10/1S, 10/1B (nanocomposite armor).
Hull radiators (60 ksf), folding radiator
wings (70 ksf). Chameleon surface.
Modules: New command bridge; 2 medium ladar; 2 large PESA; large fixed
PESA +4 [F]; 2 large radar; 250 HI
fusion pulse drive; 920 tanks (ultralight, nuclear pellets); 8 10-MJ heavy
laser towers [S]; 2 10-MJ heavy lasers
[B]; 6 2.5-MJ light laser towers [S];
coilgun [F]; 2 350’ new particle accelerator [F/F]; 8 cabin; 5 bunkroom;
heavy storm shelter (2-space: encloses

bridge, cPF 1,000); minifac workshop; 2 large entry module; spacedock
hangar (75’ long, 20’ wide, 12’ high: 36
spaces); 4 vehicle bays (Predator
AKV: 110 tons, 0.112 ksf; 6 spaces
each); 10 power pack; surgery; 10
cargo (50 tons).
Statistics: EMass 7,565; CMass 14,152;
LMass 19,672. Cost M$2,108.96. cHP
3,888. Size Modifier [Hull] +6/+10,
[Radiators] +9. HT 12. Maintenance
Interval: 0.87 hours. RRA 125.
Performance: sAccel: 0.07 G. Burn
Endurance: 92 hours. Burn Points:
23,180. Delta-V: 70.84 mps. No air
speed.
Variant: The competing Nanodynamics
Space Systems YDFS-2 design was
functionally similar to the basic DFS-3.
Remove one particle beam and the
power packs, and add an additional 4
10-MJ heavy laser towers [S] and 4
2.5-MJ light laser towers [S]. Replace
the fusion drive with an HI antimatter
pulse drive engine (same drive spaces
and tanks). Add an additional 5 cargo
and a 0.24-space antimatter bay (24
grams); 4.46 empty spaces remain.
EMass 7,410; CMass 14,023; LMass
19,543. Cost M$2,166.38. sAccel: 0.09
G. Burn Points: 29,810. Delta-V: 91.08
mps.

SEM-23B
PEREGRINE REMOTE
SURVEY VEHICLE

Vosper-Babbage’s Peregrine is a purpose-built reconnaissance and survey vehicle, designed to extend the range of a
larger vessel’s sensor network. It grew out
of a failed attempt to develop a long-range
AKV, but has since proven its worth in
U.S., French, and South African
service. Its main limitation is that
if the main drive is not active, it
has only limited battery
endurance. For this reason, the
craft does not utilize its radar
unless something unusual is
detected on the PESA, or it is
ordered to start scanning.
The Peregrine is a 35’-long, 10’wide cylinder, and does not carry
cargo or mount radiators. Kits allowing installation in launch bays
designed for the SIM-7 Predator are
common.
Crew: Unmanned. Infomorph uses
Electronics Operation (Communications), Electronics Operation
(Sensors), and Piloting (HighPerformance Spacecraft).
Design: Cylinder hull (5.6 spaces, titanium alloy, light frame); cDR/cPF
5/1F, 1/1S, 1/1B (carbon composite
armor). Chameleon surface.
Modules: Old unmanned controls; medium
fixed PESA [S]; medium fixed radar
[F]; 1 compact HI fusion pulse drive;
2.55 tanks (ultralight, nuclear pellets);
1 battery.
Statistics: EMass 44; CMass 59; LMass
74. Cost M$6.47. cHP 10. Size Modifier +2/+5. HT 12. Maintenance Interval:
7.87 hours. RRA 0.
Performance: sAccel: 0.1 G.
Burn Endurance: 42.5
hours. Burn Points:
15,300. Delta-V: 46.75
mps. No air speed.

AC-425 SEMINOLE

MICROGRAVITY
ASSAULT VEHICLE

Sometimes referred to as an “assault
boat” by Army personnel, the AC-425 is a
small spacecraft designed for the rapid
insertion of combat personnel onto hostile
planetoids or space vessels. Not particularly
popular with troops, it has gained a variety
of nicknames, ranging from “suicide hotdog” to “CSP-1: Coffin, Self Propelled.”
Most of the concern centers on the MAV’s
inability to hide when moving to its target.
Attempts at emissions cloaking have
proven ineffective, but rumors persist of
SIA and Special Forces variants with
advanced drive-masking technology.
The AC-425 was funded by the
U.S. Army in 2085 as part of its Force
2100 program, and was heavily influenced by lessons learned during the
Hyperion campaign. The Army contracted Vosper-Babbage to produce
five vessels for testing between 2087
and 2093. The test design was modified to better accommodate cybershells, and limited production began
in 2098. The production models are
named after famous Native American
warriors.
The craft can carry an entire platoon of battlesuited or cybershell personnel in its spacedock, ready for
instantaneous deployment. It can also provide limited fire support from its own 2.5MJ laser, and in an emergency can even be
used as an impromptu AKV. It is 35’ long
and 15’ wide, dominated by the spacedock
and grappling equipment. Typical payload
is 5 tons. Due to its size, the craft is usually
carried on external grapples, loading passengers through the spacedock rather than
the entry module.

Crew: Unmanned. Infomorph uses Electronics Operation (Communications),
Electronics Operation (Sensors), Gunner (Beams), and Piloting (High-Performance Spacecraft).

SHIPBOARD COMBAT

Boarding actions are fairly common. They
rarely occur in the middle of a space battle, but
military and paramilitary forces often need to
board a relatively defenseless merchant vessel
to search for contraband, or to seize control of
a vessel that has surrendered or been disabled,
or to capture a space station.
Most boarding actions involving spacecraft are one-sided affairs, since the boarding
party usually has the option of retreating to its
mother ship and destroying the target. Of
course, the defenders may know this – which
may drive them to desperate measures. Boarding with MAVs or other small craft ensures that
even if the defender has rigged the vessel to
self-destruct, he cannot do much more than
destroy the boarding party itself.
Fighting is only likely to occur when
boarding a large space station (which the
defender knows is too big or too valuable to be
destroyed); when the defenders are not fanatical enough to self-destruct, but wish to make
the attackers pay a price; or, most commonly,
when the defenders panic (for example, after a
military boarding party discovers contraband).

Design: Streamlined cylinder (12.6 spaces,
nanocomposite, medium frame);
cDR/cPF 35/2F, 15/1S, 5/1B (diamondoid armor). Chameleon surface.
Modules: New unmanned controls; small
fixed ladar [F]; small PESA; 1 compact
kerosene-oxygen rocket; 3 tanks (ultralight, kerosene-oxygen); 2.5-MJ light
laser [F]; 2 small robot arms; small
entry module; 0.5 power pack; 0.1 battery; spacedock hangar (25’ long, 10’
wide, 10’ high: 5 spaces); 0.5 cargo
(2.5 tons).
Statistics: EMass 126; CMass 152; LMass
173. Cost M$39.18. cHP 32. Size Modifier +3/+5. HT 12. Maintenance Interval: 6.39 hours. RRA 0.
Performance: sAccel: 3.25 G. Burn
Endurance: 0.009 hours (32 seconds).
Burn Points: 110. Delta-V: 0.322 mps.
No air speed.

A defending force may also hope to exact
enough of a price to force the boarders to negotiate . . . or even to capture unwary intruders as
hostages. Cybershells and cyberswarms add
additional uncertainty: a small transport vessel
known to be rated for minimal life support
could hold hundreds of combat cybershells or
cyberswarms that have no compunction about
sacrificing themselves.
Spacecraft are fairly sturdy, but a firefight
taking place inside a vessel may damage it!
One way to determine the effects is to roll damage done for weapons fired inside the craft,
subtract the DR of interior partitions, and keep
a running total of the results. Every time total
damage reaches a multiple of (cHP/10), roll on
the Major Damage Table (p. TS203).
Example: A hijacker fires a 10mm PDW
on board a Sudbury. A PDW does 3d damage
per shot, averaging 10.5 points of damage. Interior partitions are DR 8 on civilian vessels
(p. 20), so the final damage per shot is 2.5
points – or 30 points for a burst of 12 rounds. A
Sudbury has 1,320 cHP, so 5 bursts (150 damage) cause a major damage result.

TRANSPACIFIC
SOCIALIST
ALLIANCE
(TSA)

The TSA Aerospace Forces suffered a
resounding defeat by the Chinese PLANSF during the Pacific War. By the end of the
war, over 95% of their orbital assets and
several of their ground facilities had been
destroyed. Their command and control system was in complete chaos – resulting in a
loss of control over their extensive network
of AKVs and SDPs – and dozens of their
highest-ranking officers were killed.
In the wake of the peace agreement, the
TSA has slowly rebuilt its fleet, careful to
hide its true strength and spread its few
assets far apart to avoid any possibility of a
quick defeat.

DOCTRINE

The TSA’s various nations operate a
space force that is only a shadow of its former self. Its few surviving warships are
archaic, and production of new craft is limited by the lack of TSA-owned orbital construction facilities and trade restrictions. To
circumvent this, Indonesia hopes to expand
its trade with the Duncanites, exchanging
technical information and hard currency for
use of Duncanite space facilities and construction expertise. Partly as a result of this,
the TSA has moved some of its vessels into
the Deep Beyond – ostensibly as part of an
effort to disable rogue AKVs, but in reality
to ensure that they are not static targets for
any future Chinese strikes. This move has
alarmed some Duncanite communities, who
fear it may escalate ongoing Chinese
harassment into a full-scale war, but those
who choose to deal with the TSA see the
benefits as justifying the risk.

DEPLOYMENT

The TSA does not possess a unified
aerospace force; each country has a completely independent military that cooperates
on matters of mutual defense and equipment contracting. Peru and Indonesia maintain the TSA’s strongest space forces, with
the remaining members providing funds
and bases of operation.
The TSA’s current deep space
fleet consists of five LSDVs and a dozen
smaller craft (mostly converted commercial vessels). Most combatants are refurbished
survivors of the Pacific
War and inferior to any
The
modern design – at least
officially. The agreement
TSA
with the Duncanites has
does
created much uncertainty
about their current strnot
ength and capabilities.
The TSA no longer
possess
has a large force in orbit –
a unified
at least, not publicly. Its
members do have a few
aerohundred communication
and surveillance satellites,
space
but most space defenses
force.
are ground-based lasers,
backed up by a few dozen
TAVs and TACVs which
are mostly used to service
satellites and provide strategic airlift. However, there are suspicions that the TSA has
some commercial satellites that are actually
disguised SDPs or AKV bases.

SALAHUDIN
SAMBOJA-CLASS
UNMANNED SPACE
DOMINANCE VESSEL

Designed in 2099, the Salahudin Samboja class of vessels reflects a dramatically
different design paradigm from the other
space powers. While other military space
vessels use extensive automation to
reduce crew sizes, all but the smallest

craft are still expected to have a living
being responsible for their operation.
The TSA military saw the opportunity to
save money and mass by removing living
beings entirely – everything a human or
bioroid crew can do is easily accomplished
with AIs, ghosts, and cybershells. This
reflected the TSA’s view of its warcraft:
they were intended solely for offensive
space-superiority or raiding operations
against enemy commerce and bases. With
few extraterrestrial holdings to support, the
TSA saw little need to design the vessels for
peacekeeping, gunboat diplomacy, or other
tasks that required a trusted human being on
the bridge.
The Salahudin Samboja-class is purely
a warship, designed with the maximum feasible amount of armor and firepower in a
vessel of its size. It does not carry troops or
cargo and has no accommodations for crew
of any kind (in fact, most components are
designed with minimal access space, relying on cyberswarms and small cybershells
for maintenance). Externally the ship does
not appear wildly different from other SDV
designs. The hull is a flattened streamlined
cylinder 220’ long and 60’ wide, bristling
with laser arrays and sensor panels. The
retractable radiator arrays are extremely
large for the vessel’s size, however, extending to an impressive 212’ × 212’. Typical
payload is 1,420 tons, including 10 munitions packs and 12 Amazon AKVs
(p. TS192).
The first vessel of the class is not being
produced in a TSA facility. Instead, the
majority of the work is being done by the
Red Duncanites at Liang Mountain. The
TSA is providing the weapon systems, sensors and technical personnel, shipped
in through intermediaries. The first vessel,
named for a famous Indonesian naval commander during the Pacific War, will be completed by July of 2100. The Chinese have
become aware of the project, and the
PLAN-SF may stage a second attack at
Liang Mountain to destroy the Salahudin
Samboja before it is fully operational.
Crew: Unmanned. The vessel usually
maintains two or three infomorphs:
a ghost or SAI in the new

BASES

The TSA no longer has any large
deep-space facilities in Earth-Lunar space,
although there are rumors of pre-War automated facilities in the Junk Jungle and the
Belt. Several AKV launch facilities remain
unaccounted for, as their command and
control facilities were destroyed in the
early days of the conflict. Most surviving
bases are small and either mobile or
extremely well hidden, and may include
small observation and depot facilities on
Venus and in the Deep Beyond.

unmanned controls and one or two
NAIs responsible for controlling the
various cybershell and cyberswarm
maintenance units.
Design: Streamlined cylinder (1,267.2
spaces, metal matrix composite, heavy
frame); cDR/cPF 112/50F, 15/2S,
15/2B (metal matrix composite armor).
Hull radiators (35 ksf), folding radiator
wings (90 ksf). Chameleon surface.
Modules: New unmanned controls; old
unmanned controls; 2 large radar; 2
large PESA; large fixed ladar [F]; 160
compact HI fusion pulse drive; 850
tanks (ultralight, nuclear pellets); 10
10-MJ heavy laser towers [S]; 4 10-MJ
heavy lasers [F]; 3 2.5-MJ light lasers
[B]; 200’ new particle beam [F]; 2 coilguns [F/F]; 1 heavy storm shelter (0.1
space; encloses both unmanned controls, cPF 1,000); 2 minifac workshop;
12 vehicle bays (Amazon AKV: 110
tons, 0.08 ksf; 6 spaces each); 7.5 new
fusion reactor (40 MW); 5 cargo (25
tons).
Statistics: EMass 8,221; CMass 14,741;
LMass 19,841. Cost M$1,271.86. cHP
1,475. Size Modifier [Hull] +6/+10,
[Radiators] +10. HT 12. Maintenance
Interval: 1.12 hours. RRA 122.
Performance: sAccel: 0.07 G. Burn
Endurance: 88.54 hours. Burn Points:
2,231. Delta-V: 68.17 mps. No air
speed.

ROGUE AKVS

Years after the end of the Pacific War,
relics of the conflict continue to pose a danger to space navigation. Most infamous are
the various AKVs deployed by the TSA
before the war. During the conflict, many of
these deadly machines lost contact with
their control sites. They continue to operate
as if the war continues. All were built to
ignore civilian vessels, but since IFF standards have changed and many designs have
entered service over the years, the AIs on
rogue AKVs – lacking updates – often
come to the conclusion that civilian vessels
are unidentified combat craft. The jumbled
commands issued during the Pacific War
and the loss of the command codes are
sources of distress even with the TSA, who
are no more safe from rogue AKVs than
anyone else. Despite several campaigns to

locate and destroy them, dozens are
suspected to be hiding in the L5 Junk
Jungle or the Deep Beyond in 2100.
Another problem is that the adaptive
learning algorithms of the LAI software
used on the early AKVs were not particularly stable: the LAIs tended to learn many
unanticipated and undesired thinking patterns. As the TSA never expected the AKVs
to be deployed for this long, this was
deemed to be a minor problem that could be
corrected with periodic updates. For this
reason, many rogue AKV infomorphs have
the following digital entity lens:
Rogue AKV: An AKV AI that has
become dangerously unstable. Delete Honesty, Reprogrammable Duty, and all Taboo
Traits. Increase cost by 35 points. Some are
simply cunning; others display disadvantages such as Bloodlust, Delusions (“Everyone is my enemy!”), and Extreme
Fanaticism.

The final complication is that
these AKVs are well hidden. Most were
placed before there was any coordinated
system of monitoring interplanetary flights.
The PLAN-SF monitored TSA space activity before the war, but lost a significant
amount of that information due to infowar
and covert operations. The AKVs were typically placed at strategic locations (as they
lacked delta-v) by other vessels, but maintained a very low power profile. Sometimes
they used heat sinks bored into small asteroids to mask their infrared signature. Those
located in the L5 Junk Jungle were disguised as garbage, relying on passive or dispersed sensors to detect potential targets.
Many of these sensors have been destroyed
or deactivated, which makes the rogue
AKVs located there little more than dangerous booby traps. Luckily, none of the Pacific War AKVs were equipped with nuclear
weapons or XLMPs.
There is no official reward offered for
locating or destroying a rogue AKV, but
doing so will count toward gaining a positive Reputation with almost everyone living
in space. Spacers have a fear of rogue
AKVs that far outstrips the AKVs’ actual
capabilities. The loss of the Charlevoix in
June of 2099 has only ratcheted paranoia to
new heights. Many private groups have
offered bounties on confirmed rogue AKV
kills, up to several million dollars each.

KUPU-KUPU-CLASS
AUTONOMOUS KILL
VEHICLE

The Kupu-Kupu (“Butterfly”) was the
most common AKV used by the TSA,
deployed in great numbers during the Pacific War. Some were stationed on TSA bases
or spacecraft (and often destroyed before
they could be launched), while others were
secretly pre-positioned in hidden locations
– mostly in Earth orbit, L4, L5, and Lunar
orbit, and aboard merchant vessels – that
allowed them to survive China’s first strike
. . . and in some cases, to continue fighting
even after the TSA made peace.

The Kupu-Kupu is representative
of the cheap “captor mine” AKVs that
were common before the war, and is based
on the earlier Russian Istrebitel SputnikovG killer satellites. It has a sphere hull 20’ in
diameter. Its only weapons are a 2.5-MJ
light laser, a coilgun . . . and itself. The
AKV will activate as close as possible to its
target and immediately move both to ram
and strike with a KKMP. The laser is used
to attack targets of opportunity, or to further
damage its target. If other rogues are in the
area, they may cooperate. Typical payload
is 9.5 tons, consisting of a single KKMP
munitions pack.
Crew: Unmanned. Infomorph uses Electronics Operation (Communications),
Electronics Operation (Sensors), Gunner (Beams), Gunner (Railgun), and
Piloting (High-Performance Spacecraft)). These AKVs have much higher
than average Piloting skills, with a skill
level of 20.
Design: Sphere hull (8 spaces, foamed
alloy, medium frame, smart); cDR/cPF
20/5 (carbon composite armor).
Chameleon surface.
Modules: Old unmanned controls; medium
fixed PESA [F]; medium fixed radar
[F]; 0.5 compact kerosene-oxygen
rocket; 3 tanks (ultralight, keroseneoxygen); 2.5-MJ light laser [S]; coilgun [F]; 0.2 battery; 1 power pack; 1
new fission reactor (2 MW).
Statistics: EMass 227; CMass 257; LMass
278. Cost M$12.26. cHP 19. Size Modifier +3. HT 12. Maintenance Interval:
11.42 hours. RRA 0.
Performance: sAccel: 0.96 G. Burn
Endurance: 0.019 hours (1.14 minutes). Burn Points: 70. Delta-V: 0.200
mps. No air speed.
Notes: Many AKVs have far lower HT than
normal as the result of wear and tear. In
addition, many have long since run out
of fuel for their fission reactor, and idle
with only the PESA active. If such an
AKV detects a target, it will immediately attack and attempt to do as much
damage as possible before its battery
and power pack are depleted.

AC-425, see Seminole MAV.
AKVs, rogue, 46, 47.
Angel SDV, 38, 40, 41.
Angry Schaffer, 9.
Avskèrmar SDP, 31.
Bioships, 21-23; template, 22.
Boarding actions, 43.
Bumblebee workpods, 7, 8, 15.
Bundesraumwaffe, 26.
Cargo, 14.
Certifications, 8.
Chihuahuan, 18.
Combat, shipboard, 43.
Computers, 19.
Cyberswarms, 20.
DCS-4, see Grizzly SDV.
Deep-space operations vehicles, see
DSOVs.
DFS-3, see Angel SDV.
Diaoche-class TCAV, 36.
DSOVs, 11.
ESVs, 11.
Eurofighters, see Tempest.
European Space Control Agency
(ESCA), 25-31.
Executive space vehicles, see ESVs.

Farhauler’s Guild, 12, 15, 17.
Feng shui, 34.
Fittings, internal, 19-20.
Force aérospatiale, 26.
Freehaulers, 17.
Golub-class USV, 11, 12.
Grizzly SDV, 38-40.
Heavy lift vehicles, see HLVs.
Heavy space transport vehicles, see
HSTVs.
Helium-3, 32, 38.
Hermann Oberth class, 26-28.
HLVs, 5.
Horus I, 20, 21.
HSTVs, 11.
Independent cargo vessels, 17.
Königsberg-class SDV, 28, 29.
Kupu-Kupu-class AKV, 47.
Licenses, 8.
Light space dominance vehicles, see
LSDVs.
LSDVs, 25.
LSDV-5, see Hermann Oberth class.
LSDV-6 Soldati, 28.
Mars Interplanetary, 11, 12, 15.
MAVs, 25.

MAV-IIB Puma MAV, 31.
Mercury-class HLV, 5, 6.
Microgravity assault vehicles, see
MAVs.
Mochi-class PSV, 12, 13.
Mojave ESV, 17, 18.
Molniya ballistic ramjet TAV, 6, 7.
Nadezhda bioship, 21-23.
Orbital transfer vehicles, see OTVs.
OTVs, 5.
Parus-class HSTV, 12-14.
Passenger space vehicles, see PSVs.
Peoples’ Liberation Army Navy Space
Force (PLAN-SF), 32-36, 44;
bases, 33; ranks, 32.
Peregrine RSV, 42.
Phobos, 33, 34.
PSVs, 11.
Puma MAV, 31.
Rei, 18.
Riguang-class LSDV, 34, 35.
Royal Air Force, 27.
Royal Navy Space Service, 26-27.
Salahudin Samboja-class unmanned
SDV, 44, 45.
Schaffer OTV, 8, 9.
SCVs, 25.
SDPs, 25.
SDVs, 25.
Security, 6.
SEM-23B, see Peregrine RSV.
Seminole MAV, 42, 43.
Shepard-class DSOV, 20, 21.
Shezbeth Expedition, 20.
Silas Duncan Station, 20.
Solar Express (SOLEX), 18.
Soldati, 28.
Space control vehicles, see SCVs.
Space defense platforms, see SDPs.
Space dominance vehicles, see SDVs.
Sphere philosophy, 28, 29.
Spokane-class HSTV, 12, 14-16.
Sunlance ESV, 18.
Systems, internal, 19-20.
Tahmas interstation transport pod, 9.
TAVs, 5.
TCAVs, 25.
Tempest TCAV, 27, 30.
Transatmospheric combat air vehicles,
see TCAVs.
Transatmospheric vehicles, see TAVs.
Transpacific Socialist Alliance (TSA),
44-47; bases, 45.
Traveling, 6.
Triplanetary Lines, 11-13.
U.S. Army, 42.
United States Aerospace Force
(USAF), 37-42; bases, 39; Deep
Space Wings, 38; ranks, 37.
United States Transportation
Command (USTRANSCOM), 40.
USVs, 11.
Utility space vehicles, see USVs.
Vehicle classes, commercial, 11; local
space, 5; military, 25.
Workpods, 5.
Xingzhai-class SDV, 32, 35, 36, 40.
YDFS-2, 41.
Zhongguang-class HSTV, 12, 15, 16,
26.

