TM

2101, SECOND QUARTER

TM

Written by JAMAIS CASCIO, JÜRGEN HUBERT,
PATRICK SWEENEY, and JON F. ZEIGLER
Edited by PHIL MASTERS
Illustrated by PAUL DALY
An e23 Sourcebook for GURPS ®

STEVE JACKSON GAMES
Stock #37-6709

Version 1.0 – March 2010

®

CONTENTS
2101, SECOND QUARTER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
New Discoveries in Digital Archaeology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Music Group Seeks WTO Protection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Islandia Citizen Executed on Ceres . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Romanian President Calls for “Independence” . . . . . . . . . 4
Atheist Alliance Sues Kindercomp Manufacturer. . . . . . . 4

Biochauvinism Claimed in Murder Investigation . . . . . . . 4
Microtonalist Composer Jolene Kermani Dead . . . . . . . . 5
U.S. Senate Debates Memory License Fee. . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Thai Monarch Urges Calm . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Memetic Crimes Bill Fails in Senate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Split Catholic Church To Decide Trademarks . . . . . . . . . . 6

About GURPS
Steve Jackson Games is committed to full support of
GURPS players. Our address is SJ Games, P.O. Box 18957,
Austin, TX 78760. Please include a self-addressed, stamped
envelope (SASE) any time you write us! We can also be
reached by e-mail: info@sjgames.com. Resources include:
New supplements and adventures. GURPS continues to
grow – see what’s new at www.sjgames.com/gurps.
e23. Our e-publishing division offers GURPS adventures, play aids, and support in PDF form . . . digital copies
of our books, plus exclusive material available only on e23!
Just head over to e23.sjgames.com.
Pyramid (www.sjgames.com/pyramid). Our monthly
PDF magazine includes new rules and articles for GURPS,
systemless locations, adventures, and much more. Look for
each themed issue from e23!
Internet. Visit us on the World Wide Web at
www.sjgames.com for errata, updates, Q&A, and much

more. To discuss GURPS with our staff and your
fellow gamers, visit our forums at forums.sjgames.com.
The web page for Transhuman Space: Teralogos News is
at www.sjgames.com/transhuman/teralogos.
Bibliographies. Many of our books have extensive bibliographies, and we’re putting them online – with links to let
you buy the resources that interest you! Go to each book’s
web page and look for the “Bibliography” link.
Errata. Everyone makes mistakes, including us – but we
do our best to fix our errors. Up-to-date errata pages for all
GURPS releases, including this book, are available on our
website – see above.
Rules and statistics in this book are specifically for the
GURPS Basic Set, Fourth Edition. Page references that
begin with B refer to that book, not this one.

INTRODUCTION
Back in 2002-2003, the background for Steve Jackson
Games’ Transhuman Space hard SF setting was expanded by
a series of reports from that solar system’s leading news source,
Teralogos News (Fifth Wave, p. 64), distributed through an
e-mail mailing list. Since then, this rich collection of setting
details, local color, and potential scenario seeds has only been
available in the form of a little-known raw text file.
So we’ve decided to do something about that. This is one of
four free PDF files that collect those reports.
The dates on each report are a bit of stylistic detail, related to
the real-world dates on which the posts were originally distributed. Don’t take them too seriously as setting canon; after all,
Transhuman Space doesn’t have a fixed future or “metaplot.”
GURPS System Design ❚ STEVE JACKSON
GURPS Line Editor ❚ SEAN PUNCH
Transhuman Space Line Editor ❚ PHIL MASTERS
e23 Manager ❚ STEVEN MARSH
Page Design ❚ PHIL REED and JUSTIN DE WITT

The incidents described in these reports can occur whenever
suits your own campaign.
– Phil Masters

ABOUT THE EDITOR
Phil Masters is the author of Transhuman Space:
Changing Times, Transhuman Space: Shell-Tech,
Transhuman Space: Personnel Files 1-5, and a chapter in
Transhuman Space: High Frontier. He has also worked on
countless other GURPS products, including GURPS Castle
Falkenstein, The Discworld Roleplaying Game, and GURPS
Y2K, and on products for other companies.

Managing Editor ❚ PHILIP REED
Assistant Managing Editor ❚ MONICA STEPHENS
Art Director ❚ WILL SCHOONOVER
Production Artist ❚ NIKOLA VRTIS
Editorial Assistance ❚ JASON LEVINE

INTRODUCTION

Prepress Checker ❚ WILL SCHOONOVER
Marketing Director ❚ PAUL CHAPMAN
Director of Sales ❚ ROSS JEPSON
GURPS FAQ Maintainer ❚ –––––––
VICKY “MOLOKH” KOLENKO

2

2101, SECOND
QUARTER
NEW DISCOVERIES IN
DIGITAL ARCHAEOLOGY
GREATER SAN FRANCISCO,
United States/Teralogos: April 3, 2101
Posting today to a popular infotech news site, digital
archaeologist Auberon MacWilliams announced the recovery
of “a true gem of early computer science.”
MYCROFT is a typical Low-Sapient AI operating system,
first released by System Technologies AG in 2085 for the home
and small-office markets. Sales of MYCROFT have suffered
considerably in recent years, so in November, System
Technologies chose to release the foundation source code for
the operating system. MacWilliams immediately began
reverse-engineering the source code, searching for clues to the
“ancestry” of MYCROFT.
What he discovered astonished him. “I found dozens of
modules identical to portions of the 2005-era Linux kernel,” he
said in today’s announcement. “This is by far the largest surviving block of code ever found from that period. MYCROFT was
clearly built on a foundation of code from the last great era of
open-source programming.”
MacWilliams’ discovery is potentially embarrassing for
System Technologies, which has long been an advocate for
strong intellectual property rights and “closed-source” programming. System Technologies has so far declined to comment to MacWilliams’ announcement.
– filed by John F. Zeigler

MUSIC GROUP SEEKS
WTO PROTECTION
SILAS DUNCAN STATION, Ceres/Teralogos: April 10, 2101
The Lords of the Belt, a popular Duncanite musical group,
has filed an official complaint with the World Trade
Organization, seeking its protection against the ongoing
piracy of its work in progress. A copy of a new song, “Biometal
Lullaby,” appeared late last month on the new music channel of the Transpacific Socialist Alliance information web.

It is unknown at this time how many Lords of the Belt fans
have illegally copied and listened to the song.
“I’m burnt and cored, and I want to tox the downlift or elf
who dooped our song,” said Lords of the Belt lead singer,
Parallax Verge, apparently expressing anger over the theft of the
piece. A preliminary search of the employees of 0G33 Studios,
where the band was recording their latest songs, indicated no
connections to the TSA. Unlike most current musical groups, the
Lords of the Belt continue to record and perform in person.
“Gordo is asymp over this,” continued Mr. Verge, referring
to Gordon 25, the band’s songwriter. Gordon 25 is well-known
for his regular attempts at self-modification. “We’re on track to
purge and refit again this cycle. That’ll toss all of the new songs
downwell, and we’ll have to start over.”

I’m burnt and cored, and I
want to tox the downlift or elf
who dooped our song.
The WTO spokesbot released the standard response, pending further examination of the band’s claims. “The World Trade
Organization stands shoulder-to-shoulder with all content
manufacturers and disseminators in opposition to intellectual
property theft. We will do the utmost to assure a satisfactory
result.” It is believed that, if the band’s complaint is accepted,
it will be added to the WTO’s ongoing lawsuit against the TSA.
Reports that the band had initially tried to hire the private
security company Kinetic Logic to track down the violators
could not be confirmed. Among Duncanites, private security
firms are often the only law there is, but these agencies have
little influence beyond the Main Belt and Trojans.
Nanosocialists who frequent the TSA music channel claim
that the lawsuit by Lords of the Belt is motivated by spite, as
the majority of comments left by downloaders about the song
have been highly critical.
– filed by Jamais Cascio

GURPS, Warehouse 23, and the all-seeing pyramid are registered trademarks of Steve Jackson Games Incorporated. Transhuman Space, Teralogos News, “2101, Second Quarter,”
Pyramid, e23, and the names of all products published by Steve Jackson Games Incorporated are registered trademarks or trademarks of Steve Jackson Games Incorporated,
or used under license. Transhuman Space: Teralogos News – 2101, Second Quarter is copyright © 2010 by Steve Jackson Games Incorporated.
Some art © 2010 JupiterImages Corporation. All rights reserved.
The scanning, uploading, and distribution of this material via the Internet or via any other means without the permission of the publisher is illegal,
and punishable by law. Please purchase only authorized electronic editions, and do not participate in or encourage
the electronic piracy of copyrighted materials. Your support of the author’s rights is appreciated.

TERALOGOS NEWS: 2101, SECOND QUARTER

3

ISLANDIA CITIZEN
EXECUTED ON CERES
SILAS DUNCAN STATION, Ceres/Teralogos: April 22, 2101
Despite international protests, Islandia citizen Ray Joseph
Clement, 34, was executed today on Silas Duncan Station on
Ceres. Found guilty two days ago of criminal negligence that
resulted in the death of his co-worker Ariel Ling in an industrial accident, Duncanite deemster Judge Giuseppe Levine
signed the convicted Islander’s body over to Ling’s security broker, Ceres Mutual, as compensation for the loss of Ling. Ceres
Mutual has lobotomized Clement and put his body up for sale
as a bioshell on the open market.
When asked for a statement, Judge Levine said: “Some
groundhogs and Elfs back near Earth might believe that the
sentence was cruel or unusual. Maybe so, but that’s what punishment should be, if it’s going to deter other folks from making the same bad choice. This Clement character agreed to the
jurisdiction of my court when he entered into a contract with
Mutual Assured Defense and I gave him a fair trial. If I didn’t,
I wouldn’t stay in business.”
Silas Duncan Station is an anarchocapitalist society in
which all services, including justice and law enforcement, are
contracted out to firms like Mutual Assured Defense. Several
Islandia and European pan-sapient rights groups, already up
in arms about alleged Duncanite bioroid abuse, have called for
boycotts of Green Duncanite products.
– filed by Jürgen Hubert

ROMANIAN PRESIDENT
CALLS FOR “INDEPENDENCE”

with the Union and engage in such an inhumane practice,
there will be very serious consequences indeed.”
– filed by Jon F. Zeigler

ATHEIST ALLIANCE
SUES KINDERCOMP
MANUFACTURER
NEW YORK, United States/Teralogos: May 7, 2101
The Atheist Alliance, a prominent anti-religious advocacy
group, has filed a class-action lawsuit against Gemini
Volksrobotics, an Australia-based firm which is a primary manufacturer of children’s companion cybershells or “kindercomps.”
“We’ve subjected the behavior of Gemini kindercomps to
careful analysis,” said Atheist Alliance chairman Madrigal
Carstairs. “It’s clear that these machines are designed to infect
children’s minds with theist concepts. We’re talking about the
memetic sabotage of an entire generation of children.”
Officials at Gemini Volksrobotics ridiculed the allegations,
and vowed to fight the lawsuit aggressively. “Our kindercomps
aren’t designed to teach children anything but basic social and
academic skills,” said Gemini CEO John Perrine. “If children
encounter religious concepts and ask the kindercomp AIs to
explain them, that’s their choice, not ours.”
The Atheist Alliance filed the suit in the federal district
court in New York City, where Gemini Volksrobotics maintains
its U.S. corporate headquarters. Aside from unspecified monetary damages, the suit asks that Gemini Volksrobotics be
ordered to disclose all memetic technologies incorporated into
its kindercomp software, and to pay for a replacement AI for
any member of the class whose parents or guardian request it.
– filed by Jon F. Zeigler

BUCHAREST, Romania/Teralogos: April 28, 2101
President Alexamdru Berca of Romania issued a statement
threatening the withdrawal of his country from the European
Union, unless a number of outstanding disputes can be resolved.
“The Romanian economy is being strangled by the Union’s
regulation of artificial labor,” said President Berca. “We
increasingly find that membership in the Union is more of a
liability than an advantage.”
Romania has been struggling for decades with chronic labor
shortages, the result of one of the lowest birth rates in Europe.
Since the 2050s, successive governments have tried to encourage
immigration to make up the difference, with little success due to
internal instability and a low standard of living. President Berca
swept to power in the last elections on a platform that promised
to repeal legislation forbidding the manufacture of bioroids and
bioshells. However, since beginning his term of office he has
been unable to evade the European Union’s strict restrictions on
such manufacture, despite intense − and increasingly heated −
negotiations with senior E.U. officials.
In a hastily convened press conference this morning,
Quebec’s Pierre Landry, the chair of the European Parliament’s
Committee on Pan-Sapient Rights, responded angrily to
President Berca’s stance.
“Artificial labor indeed!” Landry responded. “Let us be quite
clear, the Berca government is planning to begin the wholesale
manufacture of slaves. Should Romania repudiate its treaties

BIOCHAUVINISM CLAIMED
IN MURDER INVESTIGATION
DENVER, Colorado, USA/Teralogos: May 16, 2101
In a raucous virtual rally that all but shut down traffic in the
city’s Coda Uncola hyperspace, thousands of pan-sapient rights
avatars protested alleged police biochauvinism in the Denver
DVI serial murders.
Since the first killing took place on April 23, five bodies have
been found with their virtual interface implants removed. The
most recent victim, Madison Corrales, 62, was found dead yesterday morning near the South Monaco Parkway, police said.
“The city and the police are deliberately ignoring a whole
other set of victims in these tragic crimes,” said protest organizer Westin Carr, a Christian Hyperevolutionist minister and
chairminder of the Denver branch of the Pan-Sapient Rights
Alliance. “Along with the five humans who died, five digital
intelligences have been kidnapped or extinguished. The mayor
and the police chief talked about five victims. I see ten.”
Police sources have confirmed that each of the stolen
implants was a distributed virtual interface system that contained a sapient artificial intelligence. Implants containing
SAIs remain rare, due to expense and the reluctance of many
citizens to share their bodies with another sapient being.

TERALOGOS NEWS: 2101, SECOND QUARTER

4

The five human victims were each subdued with a shock glove,
then killed by neurological trauma related to the microbotfacilitated removal of their distributed implants, police said.
Yesterday’s rally was sparked after a report in the Rocky
Nugget, a widely accessed city slog, claimed police detectives
had questioned Denver abolitionist Ethan Blake in connection
with the murders. Rocky Nugget speculated the police were
investigating hard-core AI rights activists who might have
committed the killings in an attempt to “liberate” the SAIs
from their owners. Denver Police officials declined comment,
other than to say all leads were being vigorously pursued, and
no motive has yet been established.
Participants in today’s rally said they were outraged at the
killer abolitionist meme. “As ethical pan-sapients, we fundamentally treasure all forms of life: human, transhuman, and
digital,” said demonstrator Tate Webb, a ghost who lost his two
closest friends when Corrales was murdered − the victim and
his SAI, Doppler V. “I loved them both,” said Webb, “but
Corrales is dead, and D-V might still be suffering somewhere −
and meanwhile, hir backup is trapped in legal limbo. The cops
need to stop chasing hotheads like Blake, and start looking for
the real criminals − the ones who hate and fear our kind.”
– filed by Patrick Sweeney

MICROTONALIST COMPOSER
JOLENE KERMANI DEAD
CHELTENHAM, United Kingdom/Teralogos: May 26, 2101
Physicist and influential composer Jolene Kermani, 103,
died today of heart failure at her home.
Born Jolene Fraser in 1997 in Birmingham, Kermani displayed musical talent as a child, but aside from early piano lessons received little formal education in music. Instead, she
attended the University of Birmingham, receiving a doctorate
in physics in 2025. The next 12 years were spent pursuing postdoctoral research in nanoscale physics, making significant
contributions to early nanotechnology research.
It was while attending university that she began her career
as a composer. In 2016, she received a musical composition
program as a birthday present, and “on a lark,” began to play
with it. Over the next several months, she created increasingly
complex arrangements and compositions, often working late
at night or during study breaks. She kept her hobby secret even
from friends and family, but in 2018 began publishing the finished compositions to the Web under a pseudonym. Although
her grasp of musical theory and composition was entirely selftaught, these early works won widespread attention for their
clarity and originality.
It was after her 2028 marriage to Parvez Kermani, a
Birmingham mathematics professor, that her career as a composer took flight. At his urging, she began experimenting with
fractional tones and “microtones,” using the subtle harmonies
and resonances that could be found by working between the
tones of the standard chromatic scale. Her first Symphony for
Synthetic Instruments was published in 2036, and won widespread acclaim. Her 13th symphony, released in 2045, was to
become an unofficial anthem of the U.K.’s Preservationist
movement following its use as the soundtrack in the popular
2062 InVid Requiem for Two Worlds.
Although Jolene Kermani was one of the primary movers
of the microtonalist movement, she remained stubbornly

anonymous until 2073, when a persistent web researcher
finally managed to establish the authorship of her compositions. For the rest of her life she remained reclusive, making
no public statements and accepting none of the praise or
awards offered her. A committed Preservationist, Kermani
refused modern medical treatment and made no arrangements for uploading.
Jolene Kermani is survived by her brother, Ian Fraser of
Kaliningrad; her husband, Parvez Kermani of Cheltenham;
her son, William Kermani of Sydney, Australia; two grandchildren, Whistler Kermani-Takahashi of Islandia, and Jolene
Kermani Trudeau of Ottawa, Canada; and six great-grandchildren. She is to be cremated and interred in a private ceremony on June 5. Memorial donations to the Cotswolds
Preservationist Society.
– filed by Jon F. Zeigler

U.S. SENATE DEBATES
MEMORY LICENSE FEE
WASHINGTON, D.C., United States/Teralogos: June 3, 2101
Over protests from minority Republicans, the United States
Senate today held hearings on the possibility of new fees to be
imposed on manufacturers and wearers of digital cognitive
implants, including virtual interface implants and sensory link
(“slink”) hardware. Producers of content have long complained
that the digital implants allow the user to have a perfect memory of content that they experience and to transmit that memory to others. In the case of upslink and downslink hardware,
that transmission is explicit in the design of the systems.
“In the past, human memory was imperfect, and a person
would have to return to the original content to enjoy it in its
full form. Even copies were insufficient. The digital revolution
of a century ago changed that. But we now are confronted by
a new revolution, where copyright-infringing digital copying is
directly built in to the memories of increasing numbers of people,” said United Content Owners vice-president Michael Post,
the first person to testify at today’s hearings.
The draft legislation would impose a per-unit tax on the
manufacturers of digital cognitive implants and, in one version
of the bill, a monthly license fee to all implant users. The funds
generated would be directed to the United Content Owners
group, to be distributed to its members. The fees would be
applied to all residents of U.S. territories with digital cognitive
implants. Visitors with implants would be required to pay a flat
rate upon entering the United States.
Meredith Walker, second term Republican Senator from
Massachusetts, opposed both the legislation and the hearings. “By considering these laws, we are only giving aid and
comfort to those who wish to empower corporations at the
expense of citizens and hold human development back to the
pre-digital age.” Senator Walker left the hearings early, after
Senator Albert Clark (D-NV) referred to her as “the esteemed
Senator from the TSA,” referring to the radical Transpacific
Socialist Alliance.
The World Trade Organization, a strong advocate of thousands of content producers and disseminators, released a statement supportive of the hearings. A recent WTO report, Global
Action 2100, recommended that a digital-cognitive licensing
scheme be adopted on a system-wide scale.
– filed by Jamais Cascio

TERALOGOS NEWS: 2101, SECOND QUARTER

5

THAI MONARCH
URGES CALM
BANGKOK, Thailand/Teralogos: June 9, 2101
In a prepared statement webcast last night, King Rama XV
asked his people to “exercise restraint” following a week of violent anti-nanosocialist demonstrations.
The king’s statement appeared to moderate the ongoing
rioting in Bangkok and other cities, which started on June 2
outside the Indonesian embassy, but soon spread throughout
the Kingdom. Hundreds of homes and workplaces owned by
suspected nanosocialist sympathizers have been destroyed by
monarchist radicals. The death toll stands at 32, with over 600
reported injured.
The violence flared up after a blunt statement from the
Indonesian government on June 1 denied all knowledge of the
whereabouts of the missing Thai royal regalia. The regalia,
including the Great Crown of Victory, the Sword of Victory, the
Royal Staff, the Royal Fan, and the Royal Slippers, disappeared
in the closing stages of the Pacific War in 2085. Thai monarchists have long accused ministers of the former nanosocialist
government, who fled the country to Indonesia, of taking the
regalia with them. For years, Thai diplomats and agents of the
royal family have used all available channels to seek the return
of the regalia, but Indonesia and other members of the
Transpacific Socialist Alliance have been uncooperative.
The missing regalia have become symbolic of the trials
Thailand has endured during the former nanosocialist dictatorship and the Pacific War. Much of the king’s ceremonial role has
been curtailed by the absence of the regalia, which also traditionally play a vital role in the coronation of any new monarch.
Although King Rama XV is an Alpha genetic upgrade and is
expected to enjoy several more decades in good health, the question of ensuring a legitimate succession remains a serious concern. Without the regalia, many monarchists believe that no
legitimate successor to Rama XV can be crowned.
– filed by Jon F. Zeigler

MEMETIC CRIMES
BILL FAILS IN SENATE
WASHINGTON DC, United States/Teralogos: June 16, 2101
The Senate today rejected a bill which would have criminalized certain kinds of “memetic transmission,” with a majority
of lawmakers accepting the argument that the bill would fail to
pass constitutional muster. The vote was 63 to 55 against the
bill, with two senators absent or abstaining.
“Naturally I’m disappointed,” said Senator Patrick Walsh
(D-Seattle-Tacoma), who was one of the bill’s sponsors in the
Senate. “There are some awful memes out there, preying on
the mental health and well-being of our citizens. We have got
to find a way to deal with the criminals who build and release
these memes without any thought for the harm they cause.”
The decisive vote against the bill was a personal defeat for
Walsh, who had staked much of his political reputation on its
passage. Opponents of the legislation were jubilant. “This is a
victory for the American people,” said Linda Cordova, vice
president of the advocacy group Thought Freedom. “Senator
Walsh and his cronies are very good at muddying the issue.

I’ll clarify it. Memes are ideas. Memes are speech. From the
First Amendment on down, the law says that the government
has no business regulating ideas or speech.”
Senator Walsh said that he had no plans to re-introduce
similar legislation, making it almost certain that no law
addressing memetic dissemination will be passed this year.
– filed by Jon F. Zeigler

Memes are ideas. Memes
are speech. From the First
Amendment on down, the
law says that the government
has no business regulating
ideas or speech.

SPLIT CATHOLIC CHURCH
TO DECIDE TRADEMARKS
KÖNIGSBERG-KALININGRAD/Teralogos: June 23, 2101
Representatives from the Catholic Church and the Catholic
Church (Reformed) are scheduled to meet this week in the free
city of Königsberg to discuss the ongoing trademark and intellectual property rights dispute between the two denominations. In prepared statements, each side expressed hope that
the meetings would be productive.
Recent conversions of Catholics to “alternative religions”
have alarmed leaders in both the Traditional Vatican and the
Reform Papal Seat in Chicago. Islam and Mormonism have
grown steadily in traditional Catholic regions, while Christian
Hyperevolutionism and Buddhism have gained popularity at
Reform Catholicism’s expense in the developed world. The
struggle over intellectual property is seen by many as having
distracted both denominations from the larger crisis.
The dispute over ownership of long-established Catholic
Church concepts such as Pope and the confessional has been a
stumbling block to improved relations between the two faiths
since their acrimonious split in 2038. Throughout the 2040s,
Traditional and Reformed Catholic denominations sparred in
court over the intellectual property rights for widely recognized
Catholic terms, concepts, and content. The death of Traditional
Catholic Pope Clement XV in 2053 caused both sides to tone
down the rhetoric, leading to a period of relative tolerance.
It is widely believed that the 2090 ascension of Cardinal Anne
DuChamps to the position of Pope Martha of the Reformed
Catholic Church infuriated many high-ranking Catholic conservatives. The selection of a woman as Pope was hailed by many
in Europe and the United States, where the modern Catholic
reform movement started. Traditional Catholics, dominant in
Africa and South America, called upon Pope Zachary II to
denounce the new Reform Pope. The Vatican’s decision to again
seek control over pre-schism Catholic intellectual property came
within weeks of Martha’s ascension.
– filed by Jamais Cascio

TERALOGOS NEWS: 2101, SECOND QUARTER

6

STUCK FOR AN ADVENTURE?

NO PROBLEM.
e23 sells high-quality game adventures
and supplements in PDF format.
● Get complete sample adventures free for

GURPS, In Nomine, and Traveller!
● PDFs from the major players in online

publishing: Ronin Arts, Ken Hite,
Atlas Games, and 01 Games.
● New gems from up-and-coming publishers,

like Atomic Sock Monkey Press and
Expeditious Retreat Press.
● Digital editions of out-of-print classics, from

Orcslayer and the complete run of ADQ
to GURPS China and GURPS Ice Age.
● Fully searchable files of GURPS Fourth Edition

supplements.
● Original material for Transhuman Space and

In Nomine, with new GURPS supplements
from William Stoddard, David Pulver,
Phil Masters, and Sean Punch!
● Buy it once, have it always. Download your

purchases again whenever you need to.

STEVE JACKSON GAMES

e23.sjgames.com

Download ● Print ● Play

STEVE JACKSON GAMES
e23 is part of Warehouse 23, the online store at Steve Jackson Games.
Warehouse 23 is also the official Internet retailer for Dork Storm Press, Atlas Games, and many other publishers.
Visit us today at www.warehouse23.com for all your game STUFF!

